Page last modified on Sunday, October 1,The Cyberpunk Project
by
Brought to you

Copyright © 1984 William Gibson. All rights reserved.





And to the others, who know why.
_Helden._  And to Tom Maddox, the inventor of ICE. 
to Bruce Sterling, to Lewis Shiner, to John Shirley,

        MY THANKS


          July 1983
          Vancouver


  He never saw Molly again.
  Somewhere, very close, the laugh that wasn't laughter.
arm across her shoulders, was himself.
waved, as he passed.  But the third figure, close behind her,
eyes that had been Riviera's.  Linda still wore his jacket; she
out the boy's grin, his pink gums, the glitter of the long gray
of the vast steps of data.  Small as they were, he could make
figures, tiny, impossible, who stood at the very edge of one
tiers of the Eastern Seaboard Fission Authority, he saw three
  And one October night, punching himself past the scarlet
  He found a girl who called herself Michael.
  He found work.
the Sprawl.
and liver, the rest on a new Ono-Sendai and a ticket back to
  He spent the bulk of his Swiss account on a new pancreas

  `I don't need you,' he said.
pain.
though it were trying to rid itself of something that caused it
woke, random patterns flickering feebly from side to side, as
of silver, to bury itself in the face of the wall screen.  The screen
  `No,' he said, and spun, the star leaving his fingers, flash
up, her first gift.
membered the shuriken.  Pushing the flask aside, he picked it
closing the last of the expensive calfskin bags when he re-
something kept him from just leaving them there.  He was
She'd bought him a lot of clothes he didn't really need, but
  He left the vodka on the cabinet.  He packed his things. 
  And then the screen was blank.
  `No shit.'
  `Oh,' Case said.  `Yeah?  No shit?'
  `Centauri system.'
  `From where?'
to answer.'
'Til there was me, natch, there was nobody to know, nobody
recorded over a period of eight years, in the nineteen-seventies. 
  `There's others.  I found one already.  Series of transmissions
  `But you're the whole thing.  Talk to yourself?'
  `I talk to my own kind.'
Yeheyuan.
the vodka and the shuriken down on the cabinet and lit a
  `But what do you do?  You just _there?'_  Case shrugged, put
  `Things aren't different.  Things are things.'
the world now?  You God?'
  `So what's the score?  How are things different?  You running
smile widened.
  `No.  She couldn't imagine what I'd be like.'  The yellow
  `That what 3Jane's mother wanted?'
whole show.'
  `Nowhere.  Everywhere.  I'm the sum total of the works, the
  Case laughed.  `Where's that get you?'
  `I'm the matrix, Case.'
  `So what are you.'  He drank from the flask, feeling nothing.
  `I'm not Wintermute now.'
were the size of pillows.
He could see the pores in the man's nose.  The yellow teeth
  The Finn's face on the room's enormous Cray wall screen. 
in the other.
  He turned, cold slick glass in one hand, steel of the shuriken
  `Case.'
of chilled Danish vodka from the rack inside.
Hyatt bed.  He went back to the bar cabinet and took a flask
  He remembered Molly on the black temperfoam of the vast
meet one of her brothers, she hadn't seen him in a while.'
Thing had a broken leg, it looked like.  Said she had to go and
`Just waved goodbye.  Had that little Braun on her shoulder. 
  `She didn't seem to much give a shit,' Molly had said. 
her rank required.
child who was 3Jane, twisting her out of the rigid alignments
of his version of Tessier-Ashpool.  A ghost, whispering to a
spinning webs while Ashpool slept.  Spinning his death, the fall
  Wintermute.  Cold and silence, a cybernetic spider slowly
to free itself, to unite with Neuromancer.
thing into Wintermute, the compulsion that had driven the thing
mancer was immortality.  Marie-France must have built some-
in the world outside.  Neuromancer was personality.  Neuro-
  Wintermute was hive mind, decision maker, effecting change
along a chain of winter.
fused to stretch her time into a series of warm blinks strung
pool and their other children -- aside from 3Jane -- she'd re-
seen through the sham immortality of cryogenics; unlike Ash-
chosen the nest to represent it, but he'd felt no revulsion.  She'd
had evolved there.  He'd understood then why Wintermute had
glimpse of the structure of information 3Jane's dead mother
program had penetrated the ice beneath the towers, his single
hand, remembering his flash of comprehension as the Kuang
  He stared down into the Imperial Gardens, the star in his
flush out.'
loose, now.  The Zionites'll give you a blood change, complete
head, it made your brain manufacture the enzyme, so they're
  `Said it was taken care of.  Like it got so deep into your
the toxin sacs.
Rocker,_ Molly had explained what the voice had told her about
that dealt with Zion cluster.  On the way back, in _Babylon
Maelcum and Aerol given money through the Bahamian bank
counts.  _Marcus Garvey_ would be returned eventually, and
both credited with large amounts in numbered Geneva ac-
passports Armitage had provided were valid, and they were
the Turing records, erasing all evidence of their crime.  The
to them from the platinum head, explaining that it had altered
mancer and become something else, something that had spoken
  Wintermute had won, had meshed somehow with Neuro-
showed me.
  I never even found out what color her eyes were.  She never
used the goddam thing, he thought.
rotating it slowly in his fingers.  Stars.  Destiny.  I never even
  Now he touched the points of the shuriken, one at a time,
had finished his beer and left.
ing.  And then he'd turned to serve another customer, and Case
in front of Case with a filthy cloth, the pink manipulator whin-
not a place one returns to, artiste,' he said, swabbing the bar
  The man shook his massive, stubbled head.  `Night City is
  `I came back.'
bartender shrugged.
kled flesh.  `Ah,' Ratz had said, at last, `the artiste.'  The
  The old eyes regarding him out of their dark webs of wrin-
  `Hey,' he'd said, `it's me.  Case.'
ognition.
  Ratz had served him without the slightest glimmer of rec-
he'd felt like going back.
him away from the place, on their five previous trips, but now
while she was in the clinic, and seen Ratz.  Something had kept
last of her operations.  He'd gone to the Chatsubo that night,
bought it for him, when they'd gone to Chiba together for the
He looked down at it.  They'd passed the shop where she'd
in Zion, when they were preparing to leave for the _JAL_ station. 
turning it in his hands.  He'd found it in the pocket of his jacket,
shuriken.  He picked the star up and walked to the window,
  He crumpled the paper into a ball and dropped it beside the

OKAY?  XXX MOLLY
WAY IM WIRED I GUESS, WATCH YOUR ASS
MY GAME, I PAID THE BILL ALREADY.  ITS THE
     HEY ITS OKAY BUT ITS TAKING THE EDGE OFF

and opened it.
with the shuriken.  He slid it from beneath the nine-pointed star
the door, a single sheet of stationery, folded once, weighted
  There was a note on the black lacquer bar cabinet beside
centuries.  She was gone.
dull gloss, the paper screens arranged with a care bred over
suite at the Hyatt.  Black futons, the pine floor polished to a
  She was gone.  He felt it when he opened the door of their

        24


        DEPARTURE AND ARRIVAL
        CODA



  And then the long pulse of Zion dub.
g-web in _Babylon Rocker._
smile framed with gold incisors, Aerol strapping him into a
  And he woke again, thinking he dreamed, to a wide white
always slept, behind his eyes and no other's.
it was his own darkness, pulse and blood, the one where he'd
  And the voice sang on, piping him back into the dark, but
Street.
sky, spun beyond an iron railing.  He remembered Desiderata
  Turing.  He remembered stenciled flesh beneath a projected
to be effected in the memory of Turing.
bank, of passports and passages, and of deep and basic changes
accounts, of payment to be made to Zion via a Bahamian orbital
piping melodically, endlessly, speaking of numbered Swiss
  Waking to a voice that was music, the platinum terminal

stained pattern on a folded, knotted scarf...
and crossroads scribed on the face of a microchip, the sweat-
Chiba, as the ranked data of Tessier-Ashpool S.A., as the roads
  But all of this receding, as the cityscape recedes: city as
back, in the sweating darkness of a portside coffin.
of frying food.  A girl's hands locked across the small of his
  Neon forest, rain sizzling across hot pavement.  The smell

          A true name.
notes, high and pure.
          3Jane answering in song, three
unknown,
          and his voice the cry of a bird
          _-- now_

switch, barely enough to flip --
  And one step in that dance was the lightest touch on the
second, by the clarity and singleness of his wish to die.
dance, grace of the mind-body interface granted him, in that
with him, evading his attackers with an ancient dance, Hideo's
yond personality, beyond awareness, he moved, Kuang moving
ceeding anything he'd known or imagined.  Beyond ego, be-
base of the first tower, he attained a level of proficiency ex-
  In the instant before he drove Kuang's sting through the
macy -- his hate flowed into his hands.
  And then -- old alchemy of the brain and its vast phar-
fabric of information loosening.
light, he felt the shark thing lose a degree of substantiality, the
program met the first of the defenders, scattering the leaves of
  He came in steep, fueled by self-loathing.  When the Kuang
systems,' the voice said.
ments random as windblown paper down dawn streets.  `Glitch
There were hundreds of them, rising in a whirl, their move-
spires, glittering leech shapes made of shifting planes of light. 
  Things were launching themselves from the ornate sunburst
blue towers.
  He whipped the program through a turn and dived for the
  `Who do you love?' the Finn's voice asked.
  `Hate,' Case said.  `Who do I hate?  You tell me.'
they got running loose in here.'
internal virus systems.  Kuang's wide open to some of the stuff
now.  It's the T-A ice you gotta worry about.  Not the wall, but
  `His name's not something I can know.  But he's given up,
  `Neuromancer,' Case said.
in.  _He_ won't try to stop you.'
under those towers the Flatline showed you, when you came
you gotta _hate._  The lock that screens the hardwiring, it's down
triggers in the brain, and you just go yankin'~ 'em all.  Now
  `Hate'll get you through,' the voice said.  `So many little
given up to the mineral rituals of rust.
Cuban cigarettes, smoke locked in musty tweed, old machines
  A sense of the Finn's presence surrounded him, smell of
  `That's kinda hard to explain, Case.'
  `Where's Dixie?'
Finn's voice.  `Them, me, it doesn't matter.'
  `You gotta hate somebody before this is over,' said the
  Blind momentum as he hurtled across the infinite datascape.
  `Fucker got you,' he said.
  He was alone.
  `Dixie?  You here, man?  You hear me?  Dixie?'
Behind him, a sphere of darkness dwindled.
  Kuang slid out of the clouds.  Below him, the neon city. 

Case.  `Take your word, thief.'  He jacked.
Her eyes were calm now, distant.  Then she gazed down at
already accomplished a grander version of the same scheme...' 
might aspire to that, I suppose, but in a sense my family has
to enter.  They housed the court dwarfs.'  She smiled wanly.  `I
apartments, beyond beautifully carved doorframes one stoops
of increasingly smaller rooms.  They twine around the grand
  `The Ducal Palace at Mantua,' she said, `contains a series
throat, her dark hair drifting, tangled, a soft brown caul.
  3Jane went limp, Molly's hands still around her slender
_change_ something!'  He was shaking, his teeth chattering.
no idea at all what'll happen if Wintermute wins, but it'll
again!  You'll build the walls back, tighter and tighter...  I got
like the old man.  You'll tear it all down and start building
change?  What'll ever fucking change for you?  You'll wind up
  `Give us the fucking code,' he said.  `If you don't, what'll
and 3Jane twisted in a slow motion embrace.
its platinum face crusted with pearl and lapis.  Beyond it, Molly
  He opened his eyes to the cool ruby stare of the terminal,
  `She wants it,' he screamed, `the bitch _wants_ it!'

  Jacking out.
  `The code,' Molly said.  `Tell the head the code.'
you would.'
  `Would you?' 3Jane asked, her voice a child's.  `I think
above the carpet's pattern of woven circuitry.
brown hands on the leather-jacketed shoulders, steadying him
Case saw his own strained white face, Maelcum behind him,
fear and longing.  Beyond the freefall tangle of 3Jane's hair,
eyes were wide with terror and lust; she was shivering with
clone sister.'  Her hands were gentle, almost a caress.  3Jane's
look like.  I saw it after Ashpool did the same thing to your
3Jane's throat.  `Funny,' she said, `I know exactly what you'd
  Into Molly's tension, her back like rock, her hands around

  He flipped.
  And Case was alone in Kuang's black sting, lost in cloud.
Now flip.'
drove himself through defenses equal to anything in the matrix. 
`His wish and more.  He punched you here against my wish,
  `McCoy Pauley has his wish,' the boy said, and smiled. 
  `Where's Dixie?  What have you done with the Flatline?'
  `Flip now.'
won jack shit.'
  `There's the _word,_ right?  The code.  So how've I _won?_  I've
if I am allowed to keep them.'
from Hideo's arrow.  But Riviera will survive only as these eyes,
able to produce the dopamine receptors that could save him
of my Lady 3Jane Marie-France, his _nigra-striatal_ system un-
as he lies paralyzed beside the stump of a wall in the apartments
sense.  As does Wintermute.  As surely as Riviera does, now,
the beach.  She was my last line of defense.  I die soon, in one
don't you see?  You won when you walked away from her on
that question.  Because you have won.  You have already won,
  `I don't know, Case.  Tonight the very matrix asks itself
`Where do we go from here?'
  `So what now?'  He swung them back into the bank of cloud. 
I failed.'
  `Hoping I could bring you here as well, keep you here.  But
  `Why?'
I brought her here.  Into myself.'
intervened.  My methods are far more subtle than Wintermute's. 
deepest wish was that you would pursue and punish her -- I
no idea what it carried, still less how she might sell it, and her
she took your Hitachi to her boy, to try to access it -- she had
shadow of a tumor to a surgeon studying a patient's scan.  When
account with a Hongkong shirtmaker.  As clear to me as the
on the door of your coffin in Cheap Hotel, in Julie Deane's
her death in her need for you, in the magnetic code of the lock
to read those dances.  Far better than Wintermute can.  I saw
patterns are real.  I am complex enough, in my narrow ways,
imagined you could detect in the dance of the street.  Those
  `No.  I saw her death coming.  In the patterns you sometimes
  `Wintermute?'
  `No,' the boy said.
killed her, huh?  In Chiba.'
prick?  Over and fucking over, and turning me around.  You
the frightened girl.  `Why'd you throw her up to me, you little
  Case took them up, a steep climb, away from the beach and
my own personality.  Personality is my medium.'
`I need no mask to speak with you.  Unlike my brother.  I create
his craziness.  Because they are beautiful to me.'  He shrugged. 
  There was a flash of white teeth, long pink gums.  `But not
  `You've got Riviera's eyes,' Case said.
beautiful.
  `I can't stop her,' the boy said, his gray eyes mild and
  `Stop her,' he said, `she'll hurt herself.'
  Linda in her panic, plunging blind through the surf.
difference.'
You were wrong, Case.  To live here is to live.  There is no
him now in the shark thing's heart.  `I do not know her thoughts. 
  `But you do not know her thoughts,' the boy said, beside
satisfied the most exacting standards of geophysics.
pulse, the length of her stride in measurements that would have
cringed, dropping her stick, and ran.  He knew the rate of her
a silent ghost hungry against the banks of lowering cloud.  She
in a wide circle, seeing the black shark thing through her eyes,
  He banked Kuang above the beach and swung the program
stick of driftwood in her hand (two hundred and two).
Lee wore as she trudged along the sunset beach, swinging a
of the open zipper of the salt-crusted leather jacket that Linda
and seven).  He knew the number of brass teeth in the left half
yellow food packets in the canisters in the bunker (four hundred
the mind that was Neuromancer).  He knew the number of
coded in a mathematical system that existed nowhere outside
number of grains of sand in the construct of the beach (a number
  And here things could be counted, each one.  He knew the
counted.
of a globe that contained all things, if all things could be
was spherical, as though a single retina lined the inner surface
endless beach the color of the dark silver clouds.  His vision
consciousness divided like beads of mercury arcing above an
  The Kuang program spurted from tarnished cloud, Case's
and something tore.
that dark, there came a point where the dark could be no _more,_
  And when he was nothing, compressed at the heart of all
he had nearly become...
pressure on the extended crystal nerves of the universe of data
  Darkness fell in from every side, a sphere of singing black,
  Exponential...
coins on a chessboard, doubling the amount at each square...
  And he was remembering an ancient story, a king placing
Ashpool S.A.
ing, hapless suburbs of the city that was the mind of Tessier- 
growing down, filling the universe of T-A, down into the wait-
against the green dome, pressed and were hindered, and spread,
to feed the crystal forests of his eyes, forests that pressed
that whipped around his tongue, hungry for the taste of blue,
  The roof of his mouth cleaved painlessly, admitting rootlets
dome of the Tessier-Ashpool ice.
spines split, bisected, split again, exponential growth under the
denly sprouting a humming forest of hair-fine glass spines.  The
frequency whose name was rain and the sound of trains, sud-
  His eyes were eggs of unstable crystal, vibrating with a
  His mouth filled with an aching taste of blue.
  Case's sensory input warped with their velocity.
center of the dark below.  And dove.
  And the Flatline aligned the nose of Kuang's sting with the
  `Now your best _de_-fense, boy, it's a good _off_-fense.'
  `Take it,' Case said.  `You're faster.'
it.  If it's your pal Wintermute, he's not lookin'~ real friendly.'
  `An AI's defense system,' the construct said, `or part of
  `What is it?'
the dark beneath them.
  The city of the cores was gone now, obscured entirely by
tanceless bowl of jade-green ice.
city of data.  Case took them straight up, above them the dis-
  The shadow thing was growing, spreading, blotting out the
backward, shattering the illusion of a physical vehicle.
Kuang swerved sickeningly, then reversed, whipping itself
of his deck, fingers flying automatically across the board.  The
  `Company,' the Flatline said, as Case hit the representation
below, a seething mass of darkness, unformed, shapeless...
  An arm of shadow was uncoiling from the flickering floor
  `Dix --'
neon.
  They were dropping, losing altitude in a canyon of rainbow
  `It better.'
  `This thing know where it's going?'
  `No, but I never cracked an AI, either.'
  `You ever see resolution this high?' Case asked.
scraper.
of data, each one a blue neon replica of the Manhattan sky-
gram dived past the gleaming spires of a dozen identical towers
Building.  You know the old RCA Building?'  The Kuang pro-
  `Hey, shit,' the construct said, `those things are the RCA
sharp as razors.
endless neon cityscape, complexity that cut the eye, jewel bright,
above the horizonless fields of the Tessier-Ashpool cores, an
  `Christ,' Case said, awestruck, as Kuang twisted and banked
and elongated as they fell --
of solid fluidity, as though the shards of a broken mirror bent
away from the Chinese program's thrust, a worrying impression
in cyberspace...  The Tessier-Ashpool ice shattered, peeling
jade, the sensation of speed beyond anything he'd known before
  Headlong motion through walls of emerald green, milky
  `Two, an'~ _kick ass --'_
glowed with a perfect reproduction of the keyboard of his deck.
in a small plane.  A flat dark surface in front of him suddenly
  Case had the strange impression of being in the pilot's seat
  `Four, three...'
ness.
surface of the black chrome shark a microsecond flick of dark-
  The Flatline punched them up, smooth ascent, the ventral
_countin'~,_ seven, six, five...'
  `Kuang Grade Mark Eleven is haulin'~ ass in nine seconds,

  He tapped the switch again.
terminal.
Sendai to a square opening in the back of the pearl-crusted
  A ribbon of fiberoptics looped gracefully from the Ono- 
brown hand.
Maelcum drifted nearby, 3Jane's thin arm gripped in a large
each beat of her pulse, but she could still maneuver in zero-g. 
  Molly had her fletcher in her hand.  Her leg throbbed with
  He was looking at himself.
sweat.
hollowed with a day's growth of dark beard, his face slick with
trodes above closed, shadowed eyes.  The man's cheeks were
crouch, a cyberspace deck between its thighs, a band of silver
eye, at a white-faced, wasted figure, afloat in a loose fetal
  And found himself staring down, through Molly's one good

  `Okay.'  He flipped.
  `Hot to trot.'
  `Kuang's ready?'
in takin'~ your own good time, don't you, boy?'
  `Christ on a crutch,' the Flatline drawled, `you do believe

  And then they were inside.
head.  Zircons on it.  Get it off.  That's where I'm jacking in.'
  `The head,' Case said, `there's a panel in the back of the
smoothly when she tried it.
door.  `He killed the little kid who put it there.'  The key rotated
into the notched opening in the face of the blank, rectangular
Molly said, carefully inserting the Chubb key's cylindrical shaft
  `Wintermute managed to get it stuck in the back of a drawer,'
find the original.'
to search my father's things, after you killed him.  He couldn't
was under the impression that no duplicate existed.  I sent Hideo
  `You know,' 3Jane said, craning forward with interest, `I
  Molly fished the key out on its loop of nylon.

        23



  They were at the axis, the core of Villa Straylight.
pale folds of her djellaba billowing around her thighs.
behind 3Jane.  She flipped backward in a slow somersault, the
  `We got five minutes,' Case said, as the door snapped open
said.
  `It's eight twenty-five, PM, Greenwich fucking Mean,' she
  `That chip of yours still working?' Case asked her.
shoulder, `and we got the fucking key, no fear.'
  `Chubb lock,' Molly said, her voice muffled by Maelcum's
is mechanical and extremely complex.'
one.  One of my father's Victorian awkwardnesses.  The lock
I don't have a key to the room you want.  I never have had
her head to allow her chin to clear the muzzle of the gun, `but
  `I don't suppose I should tell you this,' 3Jane said, craning
stairs to the corridor, another touch in 3Jane's pirate cave decor.
  The entrance to the elevator had been concealed beside the
  They rose out of gravity, toward the axis, the cores.
pressing the deck and construct into Case's kidneys.
wound, but it obviously hurt him to carry her.  Her hip was
senger.  Maelcum had Molly in his arms.  She'd bandaged his
cylinder, under a meter in diameter, intended for a single pas-
of injuring her, and she knew it.  The elevator was a steel
feeling helpless.  He had the gun's safety on, but he was terrified
She grinned and ground against him.  `You stop,' he said,
pelvis with 3Jane, the muzzle of the Remington under her chin. 
  It was crowded in the elevator.  Case was jammed pelvis to

  `That's appalling,' 3Jane said, and giggled.
  `Yeah,' Molly said, `a real slow hotshot.'
  `A hotshot,' Case said.
reciting the steps of a sidewalk game, `tetra-hydro-pyridene.'
temperatures.  _N_-methyl-4-phenyl-1236,' she sang, like a child
a custom batch.  Speeded up the reaction times with higher
the inflated cast.  `It's the meperidine.  I had Ali make me up
instant.  She tugged the blanket away from her legs, revealing
  `Ali,' Molly said, ten blades glittering, exposed for an
Lewy body.  He sweats a great deal, in his sleep.'
the cells of the _substantia nigra._  Signs of the formation of a
it sprang away from Molly's hands.  `Selective destruction of
he was admitted.'  She touched the ball in a certain way and
  3Jane nodded.  `Yes.  We ran the usual medical scan, before
Parkinson's disease, sort of.'
  `I poisoned his shit for him,' she said.  `Condition's like
  `Why?'  Case turned to her.
his eyes is all.'
twelve hours, he'll start to freeze up.  Won't be able to move,
  `Peter's good as dead anyway,' Molly said.  `In another
He put arrows through the pips in playing cards at ten meters.'
  `When I was a child,' she said, `we loved to blindfold him. 
even blind?' he asked 3Jane.
  Case rose from the tiles, shook himself.  `Hideo'll get him,
encased her hands.  `Off,' she said, `get it off.'
the folds of the striped blanket, raising the black sphere that
  3Jane stared at the Remington.  Molly freed her arms from
doctor fix it.'
of his wounded arm.  `This take your head off, no Babylon
ceramic.  He shook his locks and lay the fat barrel in the crook
him scoop the shotgun from the tiles, blood spattering the white
  `Jane-lady,' Maelcum whispered, and Case turned, to see
his weapon held ready.
  Smiling, he padded off into the shadows beyond the wall,
ecstasy.
length of wall.  The ninja's face was rapt, suffused with a quiet
  Riviera broke and ran, throwing himself over a low, jagged
Hideo's arrow twitched.
He brushed against a white chair; its feet rattled on the tile. 
  Riviera was backing away, into the dark beyond the pool. 
holograms now?'
  The ninja notched his arrow.  `Will you distract me with your
Zen.  It's the way he practices.'
  `Peter,' 3Jane said, `don't you know he does it in the dark? 
  `You're blind,' Riviera said, taking a step backward.
found the bow and arrow.
smile had faded.  He bent -- bowing, it seemed to Case -- and
stood above the bow, the arrow, and the Remington, Riviera's
  Hideo swung into his dance, retracing his steps.  When he
  Riviera smiled.
Case saw whisps of steam drift from the ruined eyes.
  Hideo lowered his cupped hands.  Frozen on the white tile,
  `He's blinded your clone boy,' Molly said flatly.
  `Peter,' 3Jane said, `Peter, what have you _done?'_
his balance.
  The ninja grunted, reeled back, hands to his eyes, then found
the region of Riviera's sternum.
  Twin tight beams of light, ruby red needles, stabbed from
so pure, so refined, that it lacked all humanity.
  Riviera screamed.  But not in pain.  It was a shriek of rage,
fletcher struck the tiles a meter away.
underhand, wrist blurring, into the back of Riviera's hand.  The
hand, shaft flat along palm and rigid fingers.  He flicked it
of his dance, the razored point of the arrow reversed in his
gnats.  He rolled, seeing Hideo pivot through yet another step
for a clear shot.  The darts whined past his neck like supersonic
  Case managed to fall before Riviera could level the fletcher
will bandage it,' Hideo said.
his eyes closed, his hand clapped tight around his bicep.  `I
He held a section of the arrow in either hand.  Maelcum had
  Hideo straightened, slipping the cutters into his workpants. 
mulated the basis of her philosophy there.'
on that beach, camping in an abandoned blockhouse.  She for-
years before she married Ashpool, she spent a summer alone
  `Yes,' she said.  `Morocco.  When Marie-France was a girl,
back to where you started.'
fancy.  Just old, falling apart.  If you walk far enough, you come
a concrete thing, kinda bunker...'  He hesitated.  `It's nothing
  `A beach.  Gray sand, like silver that needs polishing.  And
the place, this construct.'
  3Jane stepped from behind the bathchair.  `Where?  Describe
like it's real, but it just goes on forever.'
sonality, only it's full RAM.  The constructs think they're there,
he's something like a giant ROM construct, for recording per-
  `I met Neuromancer.  He talked about your mother.  I think
like that, but tell me more.'
  3Jane raised her eyebrows.  `Peter's suggested something
For keeps.  You know that?'
`Wintermute's going up against the other one, Neuromancer. 
  `The ghosts are gonna mix it tonight, lady,' Case said. 
ter?'
  3Jane threw back her head and laughed.  `Wouldn't I, Pe-
his mother, perform the most boring sexual favors...'
I can assure you.  He'll wind up on his knees, offer to sell you
failed con artist make a last desperate pitch.  Most distasteful,
  `Really,' Riviera said, `it won't amuse you to hear this
metal shaft of the arrow.  Maelcum groaned.
  `For any of us.'  There was a snap as Hideo cut through the
  `For whom, exactly?'
  Case looked at 3Jane.  `There isn't much time,' he said.
was grayish and sheened with sweat.
he said.  `It is too near the artery.'  Maelcum nodded.  His face
from his pocket.  A pair of bolt cutters.  `I must cut the shaft,'
bow and the shotgun well out of reach, and took something
  The ninja walked to where Maelcum sat, pausing to lay his
  Case was staring at Molly, at the wan face.
wound.'
  `Hideo, remove the arrow and bandage Mr.~ Malcolm's
  `Maelcum,' Case said.
show.  And who is this?'
  `A familiar face,' 3Jane said, `I saw you the night of Peter's
with the motion of the chair.
her damaged lens; the other flashed emptily as her head bobbed
small.  Broken.  A patch of brilliantly white micropore covered
back of the antique chair towering above her.  She looked very
dled deep in a red and black striped blanket, the narrow, caned
tall, spidery wheels squeaking as they turned.  Molly was bun-
Molly out of the shadows in an ornate Victorian bathchair, its
  Something creaked, behind him, creaked again.  3Jane pushed
of the fletcher.
  `Tell me, Case,' Riviera said, raising the pepperbox muzzle
decided, the ninja knew.  So 3Jane would know as well.
first checking her for kinks and concealed weapons.  No, he
certain the ninja would never have let 3Jane treat Molly without
him.  But how could Hideo have missed it?  And Case was
He'd missed it in his hurry to find the drugs she carried for
  Case smiled.  Riviera didn't know about the simstim rig. 
that?'
  The gray eyes narrowed.  `Why, Case?  Why do you think
think.
he'd found that he could sometimes talk faster than he could
moments of grace, dealing out on the edge of things, where
fever starting to grip him, Night City craziness.  He remembered
of the impulse.  The derms still raged in his system, the old
  `Maybe 3Jane won't go for that, Peter,' Case said, uncertain
  `It ends here for her, too,' Riviera said.
was also a humility, an open simplicity.
body was still, at rest, but for all the power it suggested, there
was part of a dance, a dance that never ended, even when his
to himself.  His voice was cool and pleasant.  His every move
lay and picked it up.  `This is without subtlety,' he said, as if
ering the bow.  He crossed the tiles to where the Remington
  The ninja relaxed his pull on the fine, braided string, low-
  `Where's Molly?'
Maelcum and back.  `I think it ends here, for you,' he said.
  Riviera nodded, his long gray eyes glancing from Case to
  `Wintermute killed him.  He's in orbit around the spindle.'
hardly comes as a shock.'
  `Armitage never existed, more to the point, but the news
  `Armitage is dead.'
cluster now?'
Armitage, somehow.  Are we hiring help out of that Rasta
Hideo, Molly's fletcher in his hand.  `I would have expected
  `Hello, Case.'  Riviera came strolling out of the dark behind
double-edged razor.  `Where's Molly?'
He saw that the tip of the arrow in the ninja's bow was like a
  `Where's 3Jane?'  Case crossed to stand beside Maelcum. 
intended.'
ficult, slow-moving projectile in rotational gravity.  It was not
  `Coriolis force,' the ninja said, bowing again.  `Most dif-
  `You cut my thumb, mon, wi'~ secon'~ one,' Maelcum said.
and smooth.
of the best Chiba weapons shops.  His brown chest was bare
alloy quiver that protruded above his left shoulder had the look
socks.  The bamboo bow was a museum piece, but the black
shoes that fit his feet like gloves, split at the toes like tabi
calm.  He wore clean, frayed khaki workpants and soft dark
was another.  Ageless, he radiated a sense of quiet, an utter
Molly's description of the man who'd killed her lover.  Hideo
  `The artery is intact,' the ninja said.  Case remembered
  Maelcum stared, his hand still on the steel shaft.
slender bamboo bow.  He bowed.
  Hideo stepped out of the shadows, a third arrow ready in a
the black thing that protruded from his arm.  He yanked at it.
across the white tiles.  Maelcum sat down hard and fumbled at
second arrow struck the shotgun itself, sending it spinning
its meter of muzzle-flash blue in the light from the pool.  The
  The first arrow pierced his upper arm.  The Remington roared,
  Maelcum nodded.
  `They're here,' Case said.  `They gotta be.'
  The water lapped patiently against the side of the pool.
demolished walls.
ness, shadows of the ragged, waist-high maze of partially
of the pool.  Beyond the white pool furniture, there was dark-
handed him the deck and the construct and walked to the edge
  3Jane's country was deserted, the pool empty.  Maelcum
in, and Case had no choice but to follow him.
  When they reached the entrance, Maelcum walked straight

white robe thing on, with a hood.  We need her.'
  `3Jane,' he said, after a pause.  `A girl there.  Has a kinda
`Now you tell me, mon, who I _not_ t'~ kill.'
  `She a warrior,' Maelcum said, as if it explained everything. 
  Case blinked.
I an'~ I t'~ bring Steppin'~ Razor outa this.'
Babylon fightin'~ Babylon, eatin'~ i'self, ya know?  But Jah seh
he said.  `I a warrior.  But this no m'~ fight, no Zion fight
  Maelcum's frown deepened.  `You listen, Babylon mon,'
ded.  `And there's a ninja, a family bodyguard.'
throw holos.  Maybe he's got Molly's fletcher.'  Maelcum nod-
  `Got Molly in there, but she's out of it.  Riviera, he can
in his hands.  `Right, mon?  How's right?'
  Maelcum halted, turned, glowering at him, the Remington
striding figure.  `Gotta do this right.'
  `Easy,' Case said, forcing himself to catch up with the
ignored them.
the cannibal children.  Molly had broken the triptych.  Maelcum
Zionite.  Riviera's holos waited for them, the torture scenes and
  The trodes rattled around Case's neck as he followed the
der.
the deck and construct, slinging the shock cords over his shoul-
useless limb behind it.  `You mus'~ walk, mon.'  Maelcum took
seat and hobbled off across the imitation sand, dragging one
and service points.  The Braun tumbled from the back of the
compartment, gouts of yellow powder squirting from louvers
cart as an integral extinguisher exploded in the thing's engine
  `How far, mon?'  Maelcum helped him from the sputtering
3Jane's pirate cave.
  The thing coasted to a stop three meters from the start of
seat giving up with a shower of white sparks, the crying stopped.
overdose.  When the cart died, at last, something beneath the
of the cart indistinguishable from the insane momentum of the
  The transit was an extended rush for Case, the movement
into old Ashpool's dreams.
T-A crypt, the vaults where the cold had seeped so gradually
long corridors, not as it passed the black glass entrance to the
it a voice.  It wouldn't stop.  Not in the crowded gallery, the
  The service cart was crying.  The betaphenethylamine gave

        22



lifting him like a child, `I an'~ I mus'~ go.'
  `Come on, mon,' the strong hands beneath his armpits,
aged.
blue derms burning against his left wrist.  `Overdose,' he man-
threw him into the savage rush of the betaphenethylamine, the
monitor.  The Zionite helped him sit up, but the movement
  He was flat on his back on the library floor, below the
  `An'~ you medicine,' Maelcum said.  `Two derm.'
with bands of translucent hieroglyphs.
  He opened his eyes.  Maelcum's features were overlayed
you.'
seh no.  Screen goin'~ funny, then Mute seh put th'~ phones on
  `Five minute, maybe.  Too long.  I wan'~ pull th'~ jack, Mute
was very dry.
  `How long?' he heard himself ask, and knew that his mouth
  The music was taken from his ears.
  `You back, mon.'
  The music.
  `Case?  Mon?'

sliding again...
angles of an invisible maze, fragmenting, flowing together,
quicksilver, a bead of mercury, skittering down, striking the
There was a plain of black mirror, that tilted, and he was
chainlink, gulls frozen above dark water.  There were voices. 
graphics program.  There was a long hold on a view through
ing, moire, degrees of half tone generated by a very simple
  There was a gray place, an impression of fine screens shift-

  Maelcum's Zion dub.
  He walked on, following the music.
jacket dangled from her hand, catching the fringe of the surf.
thin child who said his name was Neuromancer.  His leather
  They were there by the edge of the sea, Linda Lee and the
  He didn't need to.
eyes.
of things.  He did look back, once, although he didn't open his
closed his eyes, watching the music define itself at the center
  He turned and walked away, and after the seventh step, he'd
cold.'
`I don't know,' he said, `maybe you're here.  Anyway, it gets
  `No,' he said.  He took off his jacket and handed it to her. 
  `Case, honey,' Linda said, and touched his shoulder.
now, and Case could almost make out the lyrics.
through heat rising from summer asphalt.  The music was loud
line at a time.  Behind them, the boy wriggled, as though seen
gravely.  A fresh wave of symbols swept across his vision, one
that.  But the choice is yours.'  The gray eyes regarded Case
He rubbed his foot against the sand.  `It is more simple than
  `No,' he said, suddenly sad, his fragile shoulders sagging. 
  `You're cracking.  The ice is breaking up.'
is a ghost, she doesn't know it.  Neither will you.'
and their land.'  He laughed.  A gull cried.  `Stay.  If your woman
did a little dance, brown feet printing the sand, `I _am_ the dead,
romancer.  I call up the dead.  But no, my friend,' and the boy
days.  Neuro from the nerves, the silver paths.  Romancer.  Nec-
but her lord choked her off before I could read the book of her
are, my friend.  Marie-France, my lady, she prepared this road,
the rising sun.  `The lane to the land of the dead.  Where you
  `Neuromancer,' the boy said, slitting long gray eyes against
  `A Turing code's not your name.'
the owners seek to conceal.  True names...'
to learn the names of programs, the long formal names, names
is real in another way.  You know that, Case.  Your business is
you must learn its name.  Men dreamed that, once, but now it
Riviera's, but there was no malice there.  `To call up a demon
on his hands, then flipped out of the water.  His eyes were
  The boy did a handstand in the surf, laughing.  He walked
What is it?'
to stop Wintermute.  What's your name?  Your Turing code. 
  `You're the other AI.  You're Rio.  You're the one who wants
not.'
  `No,' the boy said, his voice high and musical, `you do
  `I know you,' Case said, Linda beside him.
too thin against the sliding blue-gray of the tide.
his thin brown face.  He wore ragged, colorless shorts, limbs
them, and the boy's gums were wide and bright pink against
  And then, somehow, they stood in the surf, the three of
pathetic as she stumbled over clumps of salt-silver sea grass.
only she was tired and sad and human, the ripped costume
the Finn's old magazines in Metro Holografix come to life,
hair framed in torn fabric.  She looked like one of the girls on
French fatigues flapping against the brown of her belly, pubic
following him, not trying to catch up, the broken zip of the
  He heard her call his name.  Looked back and she was
Flatline's no pushover, huh?'
Chinese icebreaker eating a hole in your heart?  Maybe the Dixie
`it's breaking down.  Bet you know, too.  What is it?  Kuang? 
his feet, drew back from him as he walked.  `Hey,' he said,
the sea.  Now the hieroglyphs sped across the sand, fled from
struck out blindly, heading -- he knew, somehow -- away from
  The words meant nothing to him.  He left the bunker and
horizon.  _Event horizon,_ he called it.'
my time.  Said it was, was like... an _event._  An'~ it was our
  `Yeah.  He said I wouldn't understand, an'~ I was wastin'~
about that?'
  Pausing one last time, by the doorway.  `You ask your boy
_smaller,_ Case, smaller, closer you get to it.'
walls, the dawn outlining the doorway, `where we live.  It gets
  `This thing,' she gestured around at the fireplace, the dark
  `What is it?'
off.
flashin'~ off a machine, cars or somethin'~...'  Her voice trailed
or maybe nobody there, an'~ other times I thought I'd see light
was.  Sometimes that day it had looked kinda like it was wrecked,
any closer.  An'~ then it _was_ gettin'~ closer, an'~ I saw what it
it, sometimes, city, an'~ it didn't seem too far.  But it never got
another can for water.  An'~ I walked all day, an'~ I could see
I took food in a can, mixed it real wet, because I didn't have
shit.'  She grimaced.  `I wasn't even sick, I just wanted it.  So
bored.  Anyway, I figured it's a city, maybe I could find some
  `No,' she said, `but I tried.  After I first came, an'~ I was
  `You ever go there, Linda?'  He put his jacket on.
  She nodded, eyes lowered.  `Yeah.  I see it sometimes.'
shoelaces, finally tossing the shoes into the corner.
He yanked his zipper up and tore at the impossible knot in his
the beach.  But yesterday it wasn't there.  You ever seen that?' 
  `I thought I saw something, when I got here.  A city down
  `Don't, Case.'
he couldn't place it in memory.
surging back, still only a beat, steady and familiar, although
  `I think I'll find that boy,' he said, as the music came
goin'~?'
  `Case,' she said, her voice shaking, `Case, where you
began to struggle into his jeans.
down the wall.  `I think he's from Rio.'  He got to his feet and
  `Brazilian,' Case said, as a new wave of symbols washed
was.  He looks Mexican.'
said we'd be okay here, and he told me where the rain pool
  `He said you'd come.  He said you wouldn't hate me.  He
  `And what did he say?'
lives here.'
away.  `A boy.  I see him on the beach.  Maybe thirteen.  He
  `On the beach,' she said, something forcing her to look
  `Linda, who told you?  Who told you I'd come?  Who?'
arms.
  She shook her head, reached for him, her hands on his upper
  `I feel... like a drug...  You get that here?'
`Baby...'
  `What's wrong?'  She sat up, clawing hair from her eyes. 
music.  The pulse faded, returned, faded...
neck.  He crouched there with his teeth bared and felt for the
  The hair stood up along his arms and at the back of his
perimentally.  It left a faint, fading trail of strobed afterimages.
unknowable code.  He raised his right hand and moved it ex-
faint neon molecules crawling beneath the skin, ordered by the
of the bunker wall.  He looked at the backs of his hands, saw
of symbols arranging themselves against the neutral backdrop
  His vision crawled with ghost hieroglyphs, translucent lines
doorway and the fire long dead.
over his shoulders in the predawn chill, gray light from the
beat of his own heart.  He sat up beside her, pulling his jacket
  The music woke him, and at first it might have been the

        21



dream.
and put her hand over his, and muttered something out of
  But she only rolled against him, buttocks against his thighs,
  `He told you I was coming,' he said.
ankles, and he remembered what she had said.
remembered her on the beach, the white foam pulling at her
  Later, as they lay together, his hand between her thighs, he
flare that threw their locked shadows across the bunker wall.
  She shuddered against him as the stick caught fire, a leaping
was, a coded model of some stranger's memory, the drive held.
old message.  Here, even here, in a place he knew for what it
gave, and then he was in her, effecting the transmission of the
tiny metal part shooting off against the wall as salt-rotten cloth
the coils of toothed nylon clotted with salt.  He broke it, some
  The zipper hung, caught, as he opened the French fatigues,
read.
intricacy that only the body, in its strong blind way, could ever
ing, a sea of information coded in spiral and pheromone, infinite
flesh the cowboys mocked.  It was a vast thing, beyond know-
he remembered -- as she pulled him down, to the meat, the
he'd found and lost so many times.  It belonged, he knew --
there, and somehow he always managed to forget it.  Something
It was a place he'd known before; not everyone could take him
time and death, from the relentless Street that hunted them all. 
and held there, been held by it, held for a while away from
a strength that ran in her, something he'd known in Night City
tasting the salt of her mouth where tears had dried.  There was
  `No,' he said, and then it no longer mattered, what he knew,
Europa.
bones, remembered flash of Wizard's Castle and Tank War
Case?  You still wired?'  Firelight dancing under her cheek-
embers crawled.  `Missed cigarettes more.  How 'bout you,
the embers and left it there.  `Never did get sick,' she said, as
green sea stuff like leaves of hard jelly.'  She slid her stick into
this place, an'~ next day the food washed in, all tangled in the
sick...  An'~ I walked an'~ walked, 'til it was dark, an'~ found
I didn't have a shot on me, nothin'~, an'~ I knew I'd be gettin'~
early, sunrise, those birds all yellin'~ so lonely.  Scared 'cause
  `I don't remember.  Next thing, I was on the beach, real
  `Tony see it?'
you had a picture of _that...'_
before he left.  Gimme this duck one time, painted wood, and
pictures of when I was _little,_ Case.  How my daddy looked,
  `Sure was.  I just couldn't figure how you'd have all those
  `There wasn't any graphics in there,' he interrupted.
and I remember wonderin'~ how you --'
on this monitor, and it was this real amazing graphics stuff,
habit an'~ we... anyway, yeah, I remember him running it by
  `Tony,' she said.  `I'd been seein'~ him, kinda.  He had a
just took it over to this guy and had him access it for you?'
  `Never mind,' he said.  `Doesn't mean anything.  So you
at him.  `I'm real sorry I stole your RAM.'
looked like more money than you had...'  She glanced back
and after, I figured maybe she was your new girl, 'cept she
samurai with those silver shades, black leather.  Scared me,
`Who was that, Case, up in your coffin in Cheap Hotel?  Flash
  She was stirring the embers with a length of silvered wood. 
hurt, while you're at it.'  He turned and re-entered the bunker.
up.'  His own laughter startled him.  `A case of beer wouldn't
it.  I guess I buy it.  But tomorrow some cigarettes better wash
were tight and clammy.  `Okay,' he said to the night, `I buy
no wind, sea sound all around him in the darkness.  His jeans
way, scraping his wrist on rough concrete.  There was no moon,
  He got up, taking his jacket, and ducked through the door-
here by myself.'
anyway, Case,' she managed, finally, `I was doin'~ just fine
  She started to cry again, a dry sobbing.  `Well, damn you
  `Okay.  Sure.  It's seamless.'
  `I _told_ you, man, it was washed up on the damn beach.'
  `But the food was here?  It was already here?'
and chewed at it.
wrong with you?'  She twisted a strand of hair into her mouth
  `God_dam,_ Case, you asked me that ten times today!  What's
  `There's no cigarettes?'
wouldn't hardly talk to me.'
money.  To get home, I guess, or... hell,' she said, `you
for a few seconds with pain or its memory.  `I just needed the
hunched forward, forearms across her knees, her face twisted
honest to God.  It was just the shit, I guess, an'~ it was...'  She
  She nodded, her eyes huge in the firelight.  `I'm sorry, Case,
steel box cover that was their only plate.
scrape the last of the freeze-dried hash from the rectangular
  `And that's the last thing you remember?'  He watched her

foot.'
  `How come you're painted brown like that, all except your
  He nodded.
answer me one, okay?'
like.  She smiled at him again, more tentatively.  `Now you
left foot and rubbed salt from the other ankle, awkward, child-
shrugged.  `He knows stuff like that, I guess.'  She lifted her
  `He _said_ you would,' she said, wrinkling her nose.  She
  `And that's enough for you?  I just came?'
  `You came last night,' she said.  She smiled at him.
bare thigh.
here?'  He stopped, a wet black jeans-leg slapping against his
_you're_ doing here.  But what exactly do you think _I'm_ doing
ward her, `I got a question for you.  I won't ask you what
  `Listen,' he said, scooping his clothes up and walking to-
smooth and brown.  A breeze caught at her hair.
had been hacked away above the knee; the skin below was
vaguely behind her.  `It's fresh.'  The faded French fatigues
sores.  I'll show you this pool back in the rocks.'  She gestured
  `Well, you don't wanna wear those.  Saltwater.  Give you
  `I pissed myself last night,' he said.
white foam sliding past her ankles.
  He turned and found her ten meters down the beach, the
  `What you doin'~, Case?'
shallow surf, following them with t-shirt and underwear.
the water.  He peeled off his jeans and kicked them into the
memories you're using for this one,' he said when he reached
toward the surf, dropping his jacket on the sand.  `Dunno whose
cloudless, blue.  He rounded the corner of the bunker and walked
the sand.  In daylight, the beach was silver-gray.  The sky was
off his damp nylon shoes and was startled by the warmth of
  Late afternoon, by the feel of the sun, its angle.  He kicked
tossed the can into the fireplace and went out.
and ate.  It tasted vaguely like beef.  When it was gone, he
from the canister, mixed the resulting mush with his fingers,
a rusted can that he found beside the stove.  He dipped water
knife to open the yellow packets, dumping their contents into
was still knotted, and stiff with sweat and dirt.  He used the
seaman's knife with a cracked green handle, and her scarf.  It
nest of blankets, against the wall, lay a cheap red lighter, a
canister filled with what he assumed was rainwater.  Beside the
  He searched the room with the fireplace, finding a plastic
time.  I get the idea.  Sure...'
canisters.  `Sure,' he said touching the seals.  `Stay here a long
from drifts of sand, and the fourth held three more of the ration
through the structure's four rooms.  Two were empty, aside
food, okay?'  With a packet in either hand, he made his way
making this shit up,' he said, `you could lay on some real
tive content.  He fumbled a second one out.  `EGGS'.  `If you're
RATION, HI-PRO, `BEEF', TYPE AG-8.  A listing of nutri-
in a dozen languages.  The English was on the bottom.  EMERG.~
canister and fished one of the things out, blinking at small print
tightened with hunger.  Rolling out of the nest, he went to the
the sunlight, they looked like giant pats of butter.  His stomach
its side, he could see half a dozen bright yellow packets.  In
remembered them from the Chiba docks.  Through the rent in
fat fiber canister.  The thing was a shipping container, he
to throw a crooked rectangle of gold on the ripped side of a
was warm in the bunker, sunlight slanting through the doorway
  When he woke, she was gone.  The fire was dead, but it

just sleep, okay?'
sleep, okay?'  Her soft accent was exaggerated with sleep.  `You
`you come here and sleep.  I'll sit up, you want.  You gotta
  `Honey,' she said, twisting up from the rags of blankets,
do it to me this way?'  He was shaking again, his voice shrill.
means anything to me now, right?  Think I care?  So why'd you
whatever you're called.  You won.  You win.  But none of it
can hurt me.  'Cause you think I gave a shit.  Well, fuck you,
that.  You just edited her simstim signal.  'Cause you think you
face on the dead puppet in Ashpool's room.  Molly never saw
the stars around in Freeside, wasn't it?  That was you put her
but he couldn't.  Said it was too tricky.  That was you moved
tried to use her when he sucked me into the Chiba construct,
This Linda shit, yeah, that's all been you, hasn't it?  Wintermute
but his ass is dead and you can second guess his moves, sure. 
is all, so you can just hang me up here.  Dixie'll run Kuang,
any sense.  You don't want Wintermute to pull his scam off,
and my brain's dead.  And pretty soon it'll _be_ dead, if you got
about twenty seconds, right?  I'm out on my ass in that library
I know what you're doing.  I'm flatlined.  This has all taken
dead and you meant fuck-all to me anyway.  Hear that, buddy? 
  `You aren't anything,' he said to the sleeping girl.  `You're
scrap of blanket across her shoulder and cheek.
  She stirred in her sleep, called something out, drawing a
Like I remember her before...'
got me flatlined, you got me here.  Nowhere.  With a ghost. 
it was you.  He tried to warn me off with the Braun.  Now you
one.  3Jane told Molly.  Burning bush.  That wasn't Wintermute,
his voice.  `I know, see?  I know who you are.  You're the other
know what this is...'  He tried to keep the desperation from
take a chance, do you?  Wouldn't give me any junkie, huh?  I
  `Mean, motherfucker,' he whispered to the wind.  `Don't
cruel.
he remembered from their trip across the Bay, and that was
watched her mouth, the lips parted slightly.  She was the girl
  She wasn't real, curled there on her side in the firelight.  He
but cold was cold.
fresh driftwood from the pile beside it.  None of this was real,
hour or so, he rose and crossed to the makeshift stove, adding
sleep, listening to the wind scour the structure's walls.  Every
foam.  He crouched beside the door, finally, and watched her
him, the place beside her in the nest of blankets and shredded
  He refused her arms, that night, refused the food she offered

printed with a pattern like magnified circuitry.
wide, startled eyes, he recognized her headband, a rolled scarf,
chimney.  The fire was the only light, and as his gaze met the
where driftwood burned, the wind sucking smoke up a dented
  A girl was crouched beside rusted steel, a sort of fireplace,
  He ducked low and was through, inside, in three steps.
in there, shifting shadows on the sides of the entrance.
`hey...'  His fingers brushed the cold wall.  There was a fire,
set into a wall at least a meter thick.  `Hey,' Case said, softly,
dark sand.  The doorway was low, narrow, doorless, and deep,
  It was a bunker, stone or concrete, buried in drifts of the
  `Fire in there,' he said, his words torn away by the wind.
step.  A rectangle.  A door.
  And then it was there, a glow, defining itself with his every
  Time passed.  He walked on.
steps.
of the surf.  He struggled to his feet and tried to retrace his
  But the dark was total, now, and there was only the sound
millimeters of icy seawater.  `Ratz?  Light?  Ratz...'
  He stopped again, staggered, fell to his knees in a few
Here.  This way...'
  `Artiste,' he heard Ratz call.  `The light.  You saw a light. 
He walked toward the sound.
the sting of blown sand.  `Yeah,' he said.  `Shit.  I guess...' 
  Case halted, swayed, turned toward the sound of surf and
this place.  To die.'
an artiste, no?  You needed this world built for you, this beach,
bartender's blackened teeth.  `But I suppose that is the way of
of the dark, Case could see the baroque steel that laced the
him, his pink manipulator swinging jauntily at his side.  In spite
magic out of China...'  Ratz laughed, trudging along beside
the rarest rots of old Europa, dead men sealed in little boxes,
props...  Playgrounds hung in space, castles hermetically sealed,
axe.  How far you've come, to do it now, and what grotesque
so fluid, Linda for a sweeter sorrow, and the street to hold the
hand!  The speed to eat your sense away, drink to keep it all
dundancy of it!  In Night City, you _had_ it, in the palm of your
go to in order to accomplish your own destruction.  The re-
  `Really, my artiste, you amaze me.  The lengths you will
Case and his predicament.
comfort of some kind, but Ratz had had his own ideas about
trapped in, but that didn't matter.  He'd called the man up for
was a figment of his own imagination, not of the thing he was
from the surf.  He knew that Ratz wasn't there, that the bartender
who first pointed it out, an orange-red glow to his right, away
he noticed the light.  He was talking with Ratz, and it was Ratz
  He estimated that he'd covered at least a kilometer before
the tarnished sand.
to the point of his arrival.  There were no other marks to disturb
looked back through the gathering dark.  His footprints stretched
steps in the direction of the now invisible city, he turned and
than any a Tokyo gardener produced.  When he'd taken a dozen
  The tide had left the beach combed with patterns more subtle
to chatter.
fingers beneath his arms for warmth.  `Jesus.'  His teeth began
after another.  `Jesus,' he said, shoulders hunched, tucking his
it on the cuff of his jacket, then searched one empty pocket
  His knees and elbows ached.  His nose was running; he wiped
with a cold that finally forced him to stand.
  It was growing dark, now, and when he shivered, it was
  `Wintermute,' he mumbled to his knees, `Wintermute...'
the water.  When his tears were gone, his throat ached.
jeans, dribbled on the sand, and quickly cooled in the wind off
and alien as the cry of the searching gull.  Hot urine soaked his
against his knees and wept, the sound of his sobbing as distant
  A wind was rising.  Sand stung his cheek.  He put his face
  Behind him, a gull cried.  He shivered.
helicopter, anything at all.
for the hologram logo of Fuji Electric, for the drone of a
Tokyo Bay?  He turned his head and stared out to sea, longing
  The sky was a different silver.  Chiba.  Like the Chiba sky. 
held himself and rocked, singing a song without words or tune.
damp, the bottoms of his jeans were wet from the sand...  He
was made of sand, the beach was very long, the sand was
of tarnished silver that hadn't gone entirely black.  The beach
he had no way of judging its distance.  The sand was the shade
it wasn't a city at all, but some single building, perhaps a ruin;
rolling in over the lapping surf.  At one point he decided that
and gray.  At times it was obscured by banks of mist that came
after the shaking stopped.  The city, if it was a city, was low
  He stayed that way for what seemed a very long time, even
wrapped tight across his knees, and shook.
  He crouched on his haunches on the damp sand, his arms
it was far away.
  There seemed to be a city, beyond the curve of beach, but

  He tried to scream.
of black mirror.
impression of something rushing toward him, across leagues
  And on the far rim of consciousness, a scurrying, a fleeting
  The deck was gone.  His fingers were...
  No matrix, no grid.  No cyberspace.
  Nothing.  Gray void.

  He jacked in.
would accept the Hitachi adaptor.
  There were four sockets beneath the screen, but only one
in now.'
  `Burned out,' the Finn said.  `Forget it.  No problem.  Jack
the air.  `What's wrong with the goddam thing?'
Two of its limbs began to piston repeatedly, uselessly, pumping
black cloth.  `Shit!'  He slapped it aside and it struck the wall. 
his leg, its manipulators pinching his flesh through the thin
  The Braun threw itself against his ankle and began to climb
up against the smoke of a cigarette.  `C'mon, jack.'
  `Time to check in, Case,' the Finn said, his eyes screwed
  The familiar features filled the screen.  The Finn smiled.
  `Wintermute?'
jig.
first one.  The Braun paused beneath it and executed a sort of
  The monitor in the library was another Sony, as old as the
  It ticked its way around the door.  He followed it.
He resisted a strong urge to kick it.  `Yeah?'
Braun was plucking at the leg of his jeans, nipping at his ankle. 
come on,' he said.  `Cart.  Cart?'  It remained stationary.  The
service cart.  A curl of smoke was rising from the carpet.  `So
  `I know where we are,' Case said.  He looked back at the
  The library, the white steel shelves with their labels.
  `Books,' Maelcum said.
ping past him with the Remington thrust forward from his hip.
hinges creaked plaintively as he edged it open, Maelcum step-
some vast European equivalent of Metro Holografix.  The door's
Straylight individually, or if they'd purchased it in bulk from
dered vaguely if Tessier-Ashpool had selected each piece of
dead function or functionary, polished into oblivion.  He won-
duced to a spidery, unreadable code, the name of some long
the lettering that had once been engraved there had been re-
was a brass plate mounted on the door at eye level, so old that
  Case stepped forward and tried the ornate brass knob.  There
  `It wan'~ you open door,' Maelcum said, nodding.
LED strobed.
think I know?'  The Braun rotated its spherical body and the
  `Hey,' Case said, more to himself than to Maelcum, `you
the shotgun's safety.
  `This th'~ way, mon?'  Maelcum eyed the door and snapped
beneath the cart and Case smelled scorched wool.
blue sparks from a louvered panel.  The sparks struck the carpet
dark battered wood.  Behind them, the cart sizzled and shot
of its padded claws against an oversized rectangular door of
  The Braun scuttled over mounded carpets and tapped one

  `Jesus,' Case said, and closed his eyes.
  The Zionite shook his locks.  `Time be time.'
  `You got a watch?' he asked Maelcum.
ing the shuriken in his jacket pocket into his hip.
to counter a sharp right.  The deck and the construct kept press-
from the foam beads in Maelcum's ears, as he lunged past Case
of the electric motor and an occasional faint burst of Zion dub,
were silent on the layered carpets.  There was only the whine
birds, coins, masks of beaten silver.  The service cart's six tires
collections he was certain he'd never seen: the skulls of large
A curving hallway lined with wooden showcases displayed
but he couldn't be sure he'd seen any particular stretch before. 
  He had no idea where they were.  Everything was familiar,
crushing him against the seat.
right turns the Zionite had to lean across Case and his gear,
the thing took lefts, because Case sat on the right, but in the
in the direction of the turns.  This presented no problem when
top heavy, cornering, and Maelcum had taken to leaning out
cart was operating at speeds it hadn't been designed for, it was
his knees, and Case, deck and construct against his chest.  The
  The little cart was crowded: Maelcum, the Remington across
  He'd lost his anger again.  He missed it.

        20



  `Bus to catch,' Case said to Maelcum.
steadily winking its red LED.
manipulators gripping the upholstery, the little Braun was
gone now.  Just behind the back of the low padded seat, its tiny
been the one his Africans had ridden, but if it was, they were
crete arch marking the far end of their corridor.  It might have
erless service cart swiveled into sight, under the graceless con-
  Case was pulling the adaptor from its socket when the rid-
ride over to 3Jane's place.'
pic of 8Jean that conned your doorman, but I can get you a
transportation.  I can't finesse many numbers as smooth as the
  `Hey, guys,' the Finn said, `on your toes.  Here comes your
  `Hear okay, mon.  Righteous dub.'
  `You're fucking crazy,' Case told him.
  `Dub, mon,' Maelcum said.
sleeveless jacket.
of thin yellow leads ran from his ears to a side pocket in his
ing, his head bobbing to a rhythm Case couldn't hear.  A pair
corridor with the Remington at his side.  The Zionite was smil-
  Case shrugged.  He saw Maelcum coming back along the
from the old Sony.
  `Strange little customer, huh?'  The Finn grinned at Case

  Case jacked out.
are nothing if not capricious.'
be Turing to contend with, if I read all this correctly, and ghosts
Peter has a point, in urging me not to surrender it.  There would
in the thousand hours of my mother's diaries.  But I think that
it as a child.  I think I learned it in a dream...  Or somewhere
  `Yes,' 3Jane said, withdrawing her hand, `I do.  I learned
on its nylon thong, against the inner curve of her left breast.
the code.'  Case was suddenly aware of the Chubb key that lay
  `He said you know the code.  Peter said.  Wintermute needs
  07:58:40, in the darkness of the bandaged eye.
  The projection vanished.
if he doesn't go away.  Go and swim, Peter.'
  `Hideo,' 3Jane said, stroking Molly's stomach, _`hurt_ Peter
pool of blood.
of silvered plastic driven deep in a socket that was an inverted
were no bandages.  The left implant was shattered, a long finger
face, the image suspended ten centimeters from her nose.  There
  `Playing doctor...'  Suddenly Molly stared into her own
  `Leave us alone, Peter.'
of sight, `are you enjoying yourself?'
  `Jane, love,' Riviera asked cheerfully, from somewhere out
to Molly's lips.  `Water.  Only a little.'
felt it necessary.  Here.  Drink.'  She put a flexible plastic tube
software, but she was an extremely secretive woman when she
certain capacities my mother ordered designed into the original
gave up, I think.  I suspect that both represent the fruition of
  `One other.  But that one hasn't spoken to me in years.  It
  `One of them?  There's more?'
the entity manipulating you is a sort of subprogram.'
termute, which is the Turing code for our Berne AI, although
corporate cores.  Voices.  One of them was what you call Win-
thought when I was very young, that there were ghosts in the
  3Jane nodded.  `I had help.  From a ghost.  That was what I
his cryogenic programs?'
  `You said you were trying to kill the old man?  You fiddled
I'm the exception there.'
began to burrow into ourselves.  Now we seldom come out. 
death, her direction was lost.  All direction was lost, and we
hours.  But I've never understood her, really, and with her
entity.  Fascinating.  I'll play her tapes for you, nearly a thousand
Ashpool would be immortal, a hive, each of us units of a larger
made for us.  Our conscious decisions, I should say.  Tessier- 
symbiotic relationship with the AI's, our corporate decisions
ligences.  She was quite a visionary.  She imagined us in a
ily.  She commissioned the construction of our artificial intel-
  `He couldn't accept the direction she intended for our fam-
girl's face.
  `Why did he kill her?'  Her unbandaged eye focused on the
show you that, when you're better.  He strangles her in bed.'
The cores know everything.  I watched him kill my mother.  I'll
after he last went down to sleep.  But I did know him _very_ well. 
freeze.  I'd never actually met him, you know.  I was decanted
result of my having manipulated the safety margins of his
above the waistband of the leather jeans.  `His suicide was the
  `Don't alarm yourself.'  3Jane's fingers brushed the skin
  Molly tensed.
abuser, as you must have seen.'
giggled.  `In others, at any rate.  My father was a dedicated
rather boring.  I find drug use in general to be boring.'  She
hair came loose, fell across her forehead.  `Peter has become
  `Peter.'  She gave her head a little shake.  A strand of dark
  `What about Peter?'
will need to be reset, but we can arrange that.'
wiping a bloody hand down the front of the robe.  `Your leg
fun to nurse you back to health, Molly.'  She smiled, absently
`He was quite impatient for your arrival.  I think it might be
  `Another injection, probably,' 3Jane said, straightening up. 
  `Where's he gone now?' Molly asked.
were smears of blood on her pale djellaba.
her forehead, brushing the hair back with a warm hand.  There
  `But I think I might like to,' 3Jane said, and bent to kiss
  `Don't play with me,' she said.
fully turned her head to look up into the dark eyes.
  `I don't think I want him to,' 3Jane said, and Molly pain-
a very bright light.
  `Figures,' Molly said, staring up at the rough ceiling past
  `He wants to kill you.'
hands were immobilized by soft straps she couldn't see.
seemed to have worn off.  The, black ball was gone, but her
injured leg.  The synaesthetic effect of the original injection
her back on a high bed or padded table.  Case couldn't feel the
  `Didn't know him at all,' Molly said bleakly.  She was on
you came here?'
damage to the eye.  You didn't know him very well, before
Molly's head.  `Our unit says no concussion, no permanent
  `-- like that.  I'm sorry,' 3Jane was saying, as she bandaged

  `Right,' Case said, and flipped.
  `Right on,' the Flatline said.
wingless antique jet, its smooth skin plated with black chrome.
gone now, and the thing looked real as _Marcus Garvey,_ a
when he looked up.  The fracture lines and hallucinations were
although he could see the black-mirrored shark thing clearly
T-A ice.  Even as Case watched, it grew gradually more opaque,
  The Kuang program was green, exactly the shade of the
Lemme see what we got here...'
  `Joke, boy,' the construct said, `zero time lapse for me. 
  `Told you don't do that,' Case said.
  `What kept you?' the Flatline asked, and laughed.

the trodes across his forehead.
ished, he shoved the Hitachi adaptor into its socket and settled
  `No,' Case said, `use the Finn.'  As the Zone image van-
Lonny...'
  `Anything you want, baby,' Zone drawled, `just hop it for
of Lonny Zone against a wall of peeling Japanese posters.
the screen.  The Finn was erased a line at a time by the image
  `Do you have to look like that, man?' he asked the face on
needed.  With his deck jacked into the adaptor, he paused.
an assortment of plugs, finally coming up with the one he
cum nudged his captive along, Case knelt and fumbled through
Needs Ono-Sendai twenty-point into Hitachi forty.'  As Mael-
panel.  There's adaptor plugs in the cabinet under the console. 
I'll lock it.  Case, you want the fifth socket from the left, top
down the corridor to the open locker door, sticks him in there,
Metro Holografix.  `Okay,' he said, `Maelcum takes this guy
tensely out at them from what seemed to be the front room of
of jack panels.  The screen lit as they halted, the Finn grinning
mounted above a console with a keyboard and a complex array
  They came to another monitor, an antique Sony, this one
church.'
Maelcum said, prodding the man in the back.  `Smell like
ping carpets were perfectly familiar to Case.  `Pretty rugs,'
whose polished concrete walls and irregular floor of overlap-
  They followed the man back through the door, into a corridor
move it.'
crouch with the Remington pointed at the Eurasian's face.  `You
  `No, mon, this a real one.'  Maelcum came up out of his
the thighs of his orange suit.
must be a loyalty check.'  He wiped the palms of his hands on
  The man swallowed.  `Is this a test?  It's a loyalty check.  It
into your custodial system.'
space deck banging against his hip, `and all we want's a jack
  `The Rastafarian navy,' Case said, standing up, the cyber-
  `Who?' the man managed.
out.  He closed his mouth.  Case glanced at the monitor.  Blank.
and goggled at them.  He opened his mouth, but nothing came
ready.  A small Eurasian in orange coveralls stepped through
  Maelcum spun as a door slid open to their left, the shotgun
On the monitor, the young man tossed his head impatiently.
up.  `Expected you later, at the axial dock.  One moment, please.' 
said a voice from a grid centered above the hatch.  Case glanced
an identical hatch, in an identical chamber.  `Very sorry, sir,'
something from the sleeves of his dark suitcoat.  He stood beside
tall young man with the Tessier-Ashpool features was brushing
and he saw a monitor set into a curved wall.  On the screen, a
with blue nonslip plastic tiles.  Maelcum nudged him, pointed,
  The hatch was centered in a round, vaulted chamber floored
Then Case was beside him.
mon in th'~ hurry...'  Maelcum whispered, crouching there. 
tiny click of the Remington's safety being released.  `You th'~
  Maelcum scrambled up, over the edge, and Case heard the
in pressure puffing fine grit into his eyes.
  Case's mouth shut as the hatch swung up, a slight differential
  `So what do we --'
vanished into flexible housings set into the frame of the hatch.
two meters in diameter.  The hydraulic members of the tube
rungs.  The gangway ended in a smooth, slightly convex hatch,
edged sideways on the circular ladder and climbed the last few
  `Mon,' Maelcum said quietly, `get up here, 'side me.'  Case
of soil nutrients.  The Villa Straylight produced nothing at all.
on constant shipments of food, on the regular augmentation
materials.  Freeside produced its own air and water, but relied
capable of cycling for years without the introduction of external
system was limited, not closed.  Zion was a closed system,
dle and Villa Straylight.  He started climbing.  Freeside's eco-
away, forcing himself to replay Armitage's lecture on the spin-
All he felt now was fear, a generalized dread.  He pushed it
with the weight of the Ono-Sendai and the Flatline's construct. 
  The clips on Case's makeshift strap dug into his shoulder
shifted slightly, each time he climbed to another ring.
of ragged canvas sneakers with bright red soles.  The gangway
baggy fatigues, his sleeveless green nylon jacket, and a pair
hand, the Remington in his right.  He wore a stained pair of
making his way up the rings, pulling himself up with his left
around the curvature of the yacht's hull.  Maelcum was already
lock, but curved up sharply and to the left, a vertical climb
way around _Haniwa;_ it was horizontal, where it joined _Garvey_'s
serving as the rungs of a ladder.  The gangway had snaked its
ment ringed with a loop of tough, nonslip plastic, the loops
tunnel, articulated by integral hydraulic members, each seg-
designed for use in the spindle's rotation gravity.  A corrugated
orate version of the one he'd tumbled through to reach _Haniwa,_
  The gangway tube the dock had extended was a more elab-
out of Freeside, and had no ecosystem of its own.
_Marcus Garvey_'s forward hatch.  Straylight bled air and water
himself, as he stepped past the tendrils of caulk and through
  The Villa Straylight was a parasitic structure, Case reminded

        19



now, mon, if you seh time be mos'~ precious.'
and removed his purple dreadbag, shaking out his locks.  `Come
  Maelcum spread his arms, flexed tension from his shoulders,
  They were attached to the spindle now, rotating with it.
construct had fallen painfully to his lap.
organs were pulled into a different configuration.  The deck and
though drawn there by a magnet.  Case gasped as his internal
small objects struck the floor of the cabin simultaneously, as
  `Mon,' Maelcum said, `mind we got gravity.'  A dozen
bling fronds of caulk.
  There was a scraping sound from the bow, beyond the trem-
that curved, groping past _Haniwa_ for _Garvey._
wasp shape.  Straylight extruded a tentative yellow rectangle
shuddered.  Two stylized arms sprang out to grip the slender
was still slung beneath her like a captive grub.  The tug rang,
her bow to miss the curve of the spindle and was snared.  _Garvey_
overlap the red square.  On the smaller screen, _Haniwa_ lowered
Case saw the green square shrink a final few millimeters to
the worn pink handholds on either side of the navigation board. 
you.'  He tapped a final sequence into the module and grabbed
  `Too heavy.'  Maelcum shrugged.  `Stay in web 'til I tell
  `We gonna wear the suits?'
codes for us.'
boat, boat they 'spectin'~ out of Babylon.  Mute broadcastin'~
he messin'~ th'~ security for _Garvey._  _Garvey_ dockin'~ as 'nother
  `You missin'~ th'~ Mute, mon,' Maelcum said.  `Mute say
lining tear.
the shuriken, then tucked it into his jacket pocket, hearing the
interrupted his piloting to glare back at him.  Case looked at
ceiling, and tumbled past Maelcum's left shoulder.  The Zionite
credit chip clipped the back of his skull, spun off, struck the
about to do the same with the steel star, but the rebounding
his shoulders, heard it click off the Russian scrubber.  He was
Yeheyuans, and the shuriken.  He tossed the Freeside chip over
he'd bought from Bruce, a roll of New Yen, half a pack of
he'd entered Freeside, two derms of the betaphenethylamine
chip in the same name, the credit chip he'd been issued when
of his pockets.  The passport Armitage had given him, the bank
him, he struggled into his leather jacket, checking the contents
construct, and improvised shoulder strap suspended in front of
worked the thumb lever that created suction.  With the deck,
the other.  He held the pads against the sides of his deck and
tangular suction pads, and hooked the jaws of one clip through
unclipped the two lengths of shock cord, with their gray rec-
pore tape.  Maelcum's workbelt drifted past.  He snagged it,
ing the construct to the bottom of the Ono-Sendai with micro-
an additional drain.  He worked quickly, mechanically, fasten-
good for ninety minutes, but the Flatline's construct would be
fiberoptics from the Hosaka.  His deck's back-up batteries were
  `We got an hour, man,' Case said, pulling the ribbon of
and _Haniwa_ as they approached the curvature of the spindle.
left, a smaller screen displayed a skeletal graphic of _Garvey_
wavering from side to side with Maelcum's commands.  To the
dock.  _Garvey_ was a larger square, green, that shrank slowly,
displayed a fixed red square that represented the Straylight
commands for a docking sequence.  The module's central screen
  Maelcum was hunched over _Garvey_'s controls, tapping out

  Case jacked out.
  `Wine.  The white.'
  `Like a drink?'
understand about Hideo.  She does, evidently.'
  `No,' 3Jane said, `there was Hideo.  I don't think you quite
be?  In her power.'
and my own Hideo to draw her little bomb, where would you
been here to distract her, to throw up Ashpool to distract her
  `She's extremely dangerous.  Too dangerous.  If I hadn't
we'll see what color her eyes are.'
  `One did.  When she comes around -- if she comes around --
  `I wanted to see if they would break.'
her?'
shock, aside from Hideo's injection.  Why did you do that to
  `About my mother.  She asked me to.  I think she was in
Riviera was very close now.
  `What was that you were telling her, when I came back?' 
lap against the side of the pool.
  There was a silence.  Very distinctly, Case heard the water
but this needs a surgeon.'
fun.  Hideo will bring a medical unit down from intensive care,
thing brief and indistinct.  `But I don't,' she said, `and it isn't
registered the vibrations of the girl's voice.  Riviera said some-
in place; he could feel it digging against her ribs.  Her ears
then corrected himself.  The simstim unit was intact and still
to arrive from a hollow distance.  Molly could hear, he realized,
  `I'm very unhappy with this, Peter.'  3Jane's voice seemed
  07:29:40.
were haloed, each one ringed with a faint pink aura.
from her dreams.  When the optic chip flared, the alphanumerics
brushing her cheek.  She was unconscious, and he was barred
was the taste of old iron, scent of melon, wings of a moth
  Into her darkness, a churning synaesthesia, where her pain

  Case flipped.
thing simple when I could do it ass-backwards.'
  `Wonderful,' the Flatline said, `I never did like to do any-
through the Straylight net.'
Kuang virus will be all through there.  Then we run from inside,
into the custodial program there, Wintermute says.  Says the
of the circuit, haul you into Straylight, and plug you back in,
in our Hosaka.  I'm going to have to jack you and my deck out
  `Listen, Dix.  Wintermute says Kuang's set itself up solid
  `Real close.  Need you soon.'
that surrounded them.  `Gettin'~ close, Dixie?'
mass.  Green predominated in the planes of the Chinese program
emerald arches had widened, grown together, become a solid
  They seemed to be part of the Tessier-Ashpool ice now; the
  `Hey,' the construct said, `ol'~ Peter's totally apeshit, huh?'

  He jacked in.
take a real piss in the Villa Straylight, even if it was his last.
bothered to put the Texas catheter back on, at least he could
  Case pulled the trodes down across his forehead.  He'd never
it.'
tolgrip in his other hand, `I an'~ I th'~ Rastafarian navy, believe
a red cloth, the black poly wrapping bunched around the pis-
  `Sure, mon,' he said, wiping oil from the black barrel with
  `That the only one you got?'
He smelled of sweat and ganja.
placed with a wooden pistolgrip wound with dull black tape. 
forestock.  The shoulderstock had been removed entirely, re-
its barrel chopped off a few millimeters in front of the battered
unwrapping an ancient, oilslick Remington automatic shotgun,
`Some man in China say th'~ truth comes out this,' he said,
at the tape of his package with a thick, chipped thumbnail. 
the frame of Case's g-web.  He pulled himself down and picked
docking diagram pulsed on his central screen -- and snagged
  He kicked back, gliding over his instruments -- a green
himself, retrieving the thing he'd removed.
open the vacuum valves on the workbelt's gray pads and freed
black package had drifted aft before he'd finished.  He thumbed
panel, along with a single hexhead to hold it in place.  The
in black poly from the space behind the panel.  He replaced the
  `This one,' Maelcum said, sliding a long bundle wrapped
watched cords of muscle bunching in the brown back.
  `You keep tools back there?'  Case craned his neck and
th'~ landin'~, meantime need we tool f'~ th'~ job.'
the hexhead into a mesh pouch at his waist.  `Maelcum pilot
  `The Mute takin'~ I an'~ I dock,' the Zionite said, popping
cus Garvey_ was groaning and ticking with g-stress.
countersprings twanging as he removed another hexhead.  _Mar-
panel with a clumsy-looking zero-g wrench, the thing's fat
suction pads.  He had his shirt off and was working on a central
to the panels on either side with shock cords and gray rubber
removed the trodes.  A nylon sling around his waist was fastened
  Maelcum was prone against the cabin ceiling when Case

into blood and light.
swung the glass hard into her left lens implant, smashing vision
his face pink with the pleasure of cocaine and meperidine, he
you would not do.  Now that Peter's come home.'  And then,
off the last of the mineral water.  `No, you wouldn't do, Daddy,
a floor of dancers, a wake for dead King Ashpool.'  He drank
favorite swing records and let Peter call you up a band to match,
help her out, you see.  And Peter says, sit tight.  Play Daddy's
may be, would only get in our way.  So.  Comes her Riviera to
and a pair of insane artificial intelligences, kinky as the concept
way.'  He smiled again.  `She has designs on the family empire,
will Wintermute.  My Jane's an ambitious girl, in her perverse
3Jane knows the code, of course, but you won't have it.  Neither
  `No word for you, Molly.  He told me about that, you see. 
ordinarily reserved for children.
  `Oh, Peter,' 3Jane said, with the sort of gentle exasperation
  She waited, looking up at him.
made a decision, Molly, a wholly gratuitous decision.'
of the thing.  `An enjoyment of the gratuitous act.  And I have
carved cylinder of rock crystal, as though he enjoyed the weight
women, swirling the water that remained in the dense, deeply
  Riviera beamed.  `Perversity.'  He walked back to the two
flat.
  `And what exactly is that, Peter?' Molly asked, her voice
possess a quality unquantifiable by its very nature.'  He drank.
the statistical animal, darling, and Case is nothing but, but I
He has his profiles, but those are only statistics.  You may be
Armitage to talk to.  He can't really understand us, you know. 
he talked to all of us.  You, and Case, whatever there is of
crystal highball glass.  `He talked with me, Molly.  I suppose
to a white enamel table and splashed mineral water into a heavy
take.  Underestimating me.'  He crossed the tiled pool border
  `Wintermute won't be the first to have made the same mis-
  `Isn't it, Peter?'  Molly managed a grin.
isn't going to work, you know.'
thought so when I first saw her.'  He stepped past 3Jane.  `It
  `Getting acquainted?  She's an interesting girl, isn't she?  I
outfit he'd worn in the roof garden of their hotel.
was beside her, radiant with drugs, in the seersucker convict
  `He was fond of broad gestures,' she said, and then Riviera
  `He killed the puppet.  It looked like you.'
he called them.'
her tone.  `I was watching on the monitors.  My mother's eyes,
  `You killed my father,' 3Jane said, no change whatever in
  `Take this off,' Molly said, raising her captive hands.
a knot of dull sterling.  `Shall we talk now?'
Her dark hair was very straight, center-parted, drawn back into
  `And then we would have talked, you and I?  Like this?' 
  `Because I had to see,' Molly said.
  3Jane became very grave.  She raised her eyebrows.
partner of mine, once.'
  `Because they're the best.  Because one of them killed a
  `But Hideo?'
  Molly nodded.
  `And the show,' 3Jane said.  `I saw the show.'
I am.'
the why of that's just the way I'm wired, what he is and what
curiously opaque.  `Because I hate him,' she said at last, `and
wide mouth, the narrow hawk nose.  3Jane's eyes were dark,
  Molly seemed to be studying the high, delicate bones, the
the djellaba's inner pockets.  `And why?  And what about?'
  `Why?' 3Jane asked, tucking the cameo back into one of
to kill the ninja.  Then I was supposed to talk with you.'
  Case felt Molly hesitate.  `I would've killed him.  I'd've tried
Everything has to be a mystery.  Would you have hurt us?'
when to let you in,' she said.  `He wouldn't tell me why. 
tossed a strand of dark hair away from her eyes.  `He told me
  3Jane shrugged beneath the folds of the pale heavy robe and
  `Where'd he go?' Molly asked.  `To take his shot?'
very young.
huddled in an oversized djellaba of unbleached wool.  She was
camelskin hassock.  3Jane sat opposite, on another hassock,
chairs, her broken leg propped straight in front of her on a
in the black ball, were on her lap.  She sat in one of the pool
tuned to a minutely different frequency.  Her hands, still locked
than usual.  Things seemed to vibrate, each person or object
  Her vision was abnormally clear and bright, even sharper
of mind be?
If it could do that to her nervous system, what would her frame
sions overlapped, became a sensory equivalent of white noise. 
mind recoiled from it.  If he avoided focusing on it, the impres-
in her thigh, the touch of burlap, smell of frying krill -- his
as a tight focus of scrambled impressions.  Neon worms writhing
they given her?  The pain was still there, but it came through
  Molly nodded.  Case remembered the injection.  What had
ful aspects of self-awareness...'
would an individual -- a clan member -- suffer the more pain-
light at different angles.  `Only in certain heightened modes
She withdrew the brooch and studied it, tilting it to catch the
viewed the evolution of the forebrain as a sort of sidestep.' 
profile was very much like her own.  `Animal bliss.  I think she
large cameo in her hand, extending it toward Molly.  The carved
individual consciousness,' 3Jane was saying.  She cupped a
  `She dreamed of a state involving very little in the way of

fingernail edge of the Flatline's laughter.
  `Fuck off,' Case said, and flipped, cutting off the torn- 
  `Well, boy, never mind me, I'm just dead anyway.'
  `Don't have time.'
  `You wanna tell me, maybe?'
  `Okay.  Got some snags, but we're working on it.'
  `Bang on.  Killer virus.'
  `Yeah.  You bet.  Kuang okay?'
mute requestin'~ the pleasure...'
asked, when Case jacked back in.  `Figured that was Winter-
  `You havin'~ fun in the big world outside?' the construct

  `That's right,' said the Finn, and smiled.
  `Case, mon,' Maelcum said softly, _`Garvey_ a tug.'
man.'  He wanted to laugh, but it caught in his throat.
  `So we're stuck out here.  And that means you're fucked,
  The Finn nodded.
other Hosaka and the mainframes went with the bridge, right?'
Armitage.  _Haniwa_'s got us good and tight.  Armitage fried the
up.  You blew the controls on the grapples when you blew
thing.'  He felt the rage rising, and a kind of glee.  `You fucked
cum put his hand on his shoulder.  `Hey.  You forget some-
  Case blinked at the representation of the Finn.  He felt Mael-
  `Kill him.'
  `Kill Riviera?'
a panel with five zircons.'
you.  There's a standard jack in the back of the head, behind
jacking your deck into the Straylight system.  I'll handle it for
the key from Molly.  You can keep track of the program by
You'll find 3Jane, get the word out of her, kill Riviera, get
the sideband.  You'll take your deck, the Flatline, and Maelcum. 
interfaced with the Straylight custodial system and we'll cut
the Hosaka but virus now.  When you dock, the virus will be
pletely penetrated the fabric of the Hosaka.  There's nothing in
very private dock I'll show you.  The Chinese virus has com-
over _Garvey_'s navigation system.  You'll take _Garvey_ into a
link between your deck and Straylight is a sideband broadcast
  `Case, listen up.  Time's tight.  Very tight.  Listen.  The real
here.  Remember?  What you hauled my ass out here for...'
  `You maybe forget that I'm in the middle of a little run,
Molly, who understands Riviera.  Maelcum for muscle.'
  `No.  Gotta be you.  Gotta be somebody who understands
cum's pal.'
  `Aerol,' Case said, `the guy on _Babylon Rocker,_ Mael-
  `So who else?'
  Case stared at the face on the screen.  `Us?'
her.'
say it.  Now she's blown it.  So I want you two to go in after
way, talk the magic word outa 3Jane, get up to the head, and
was supposed to go down, she'd walk in, get Peter out of the
  `Molly's leg's falling off, for starts.  Can't walk.  How it
  `So express thyself, Mute,' Maelcum said.
in the wind, Case, 'cause, like I just said, we gotta problem.'
you'd think of as a personality, much.  But all that's just pissing
masks.  I need 'em to talk to you.  'Cause I don't have what
  `Bullshit,' the Finn said.  `Like I told Molly, these aren't
posed to make us feel at home.'
I know in the Sprawl.  It's Wintermute talking.  Picture's sup-
  `That's just a picture, Maelcum,' Case said wearily.  `Guy
peered over his shoulder.  `Now who is that mon, Case?'
  Maelcum pulled himself up, over Case's head, twisted and
of twisted, impacted junk.  `Neither do I.  We gotta problem.'
  The little Cray monitor lit.  The Finn, against a background
is going.'
out a mouthful of flat water.  `I don't like how any of this shit
plastic squeeze bottle from the edge of the g-web and sucked
  `Molly,' he said, his throat dry.  `Got hurt.'  He took a white
  `You scream, mon, while ago.'
eyes and creased forehead as Case removed the trodes.
  Afterimages of the flashed words danced across Maelcum's

    O U T : : : : : :
    : : : : : J A C K
    C A S E : : : : :

  The music returned, horns and piano.  Dance music.
  The blood mesh slid into black.
  `More and she would die,' said a third voice.
Is she waking, Hideo?  Shouldn't she have more?'
him.  To annoy the others.  He was a pretty boy, my burglar. 
took the family terminal.'  She laughed.  `I made it easy for
sent Hideo.  My fault, really.  I'd let someone in, a burglar.  He
  `The Sprawl, yes.  We have interests there.  And once we
her native habitat.  They came and took me from Turkey.'
  `I wouldn't know,' Riviera was saying.  `I've never seen
of a needle.
  Cool hands, unhurried, with a surgeon's certainty.  The sting
a fashion where she comes from?'
very striking, don't you think, Peter?  These glasses, are they
sciousness.  Give her something.  For that and for the pain.  She's
  `Hideo,' said another voice, a woman's, `she's losing con-
  The shifting mesh of blood began to whirl.
My last taste from Ali, and just in time.'
flat packet of drugs in the left back pocket of her jeans.  `Well. 
  `You seem to have injured your leg.'  His fingers found the
  She groaned.
pain?'
Something to do with the molecules, I suppose.  Are you in
pulp.  Variant of the material they make this flooring from. 
in Berlin.  Wiggle them long enough and it crushes them to a
of the ball seemed to tighten slightly.  `It's a sex toy Jane bought
vision.  `I wouldn't move them, if I were you.'  The interior
leg was excruciating, impossible.  A red moire shifted in her
to offer no more resistance than temperfoam.  The pain in her
move her fingers experimentally.  The material of the ball seemed
but they all died instantly of hydrostatic shock.'  Case felt her
`a grenade job.  In a pool.  It seemed a very weak explosion,
in Ankara,' he said, his fingers plucking things from her jacket,
sphere the size of a bowling ball.  `I saw a multiple assassination
pockets.  Her hands vanished at the wrists in a matte black
  `It took you long enough,' Riviera said, as he searched her

  In _Garvey,_ Case screamed.
  Hideo didn't even touch her, then.  Her leg collapsed.
back, but the mistake had been made.
symmetrical wedding cake of water rising, breaking, falling
  The muzzle swung for 3Jane as the grenade detonated, a
from the pocked back of the empty, white-enameled pool chair.
into Ashpool's face and chest, and he was gone, smoke curling
  Her fletcher whined as she sent a storm of explosive darts
wire.
of high explosive wrapped with ten meters of fine, brittle steel
knew the thing for what it was as it broke the surface: a core
nade left her hand before his hands could cut the water.  Case
  The boy dove.  Slender, brown, his form perfect.  The gre-
He wore his maroon robe.  His teeth were very white.
left socket gaping black and corrupt above his welcoming smile. 
grinning over her wineglass, and the corpse of Ashpool, his
at a glance: the boy poised on the pool's high board, the girl
and years of training.  She seemed to take the three of them in
a slow, deliberate dance choreographed to the killer instinct
on the simstim link.  The effect was like tape run at half speed,
the neurosurgeons for combat, but he hadn't experienced them
  He'd known that her reflexes were souped up, jazzed by
  They were waiting by the pool.
pool threw shifting blobs of light across the ceiling above it.
seemed that way, to Case, as Molly took her final step.  The
underwater floods the apartment's only source of light -- or it
pool centered ten meters from the foot of the stairway, its
reminders of the labyrinth.  There was a rectangular turquoise
there across the floor were jagged sections of wall, waist-high
in the same imitation stone that walled the corridor.  Here and
vature of the spindle.  The ceiling was low and irregular, done
were lost to an inverse horizon, the floor hidden by the cur-
She lived in a single room so broad and deep that its far reaches
hull, chopping away the maze of walls that was her legacy. 
self a low country flush with the inner surface of Straylight's
  Lady 3Jane Marie-France Tessier-Ashpool had carved her-
walking it the way she talked it.
Chiba, the whole lineage back to Lee and Eastwood.  She was
every bad-ass hero, Sony Mao in the old Shaw videos, Mickey
Case had grown up on.  For a few seconds, he knew, she was
time's observation of martial arts tapes, cheap ones, the kind
  It was a performance.  It was like the culmination of a life-
with the studied nonchalance of a Regency duelist.
forearm up, wrist relaxed, swaying the muzzle of the fletcher
like she owned the place, elbow of her gun arm at her hip,
around the pain in her leg and marched down 3Jane's stairs
she'd pulled it all together for her entrance.  Pulled it together
flying across the board.  She had it: the thing, the moves.  And
the posture of another cowboy leaning into a deck, fingers
something he could sense, something he could have seen in
She went in just right, Case thought.  The right attitude; it was
  She missed it by a fraction.  She nearly cut it, but not quite. 

        18



her thumb against a tiny stud, and she was descending.
  Then there was something small and heavy in her left hand,
go.'
a wet tongue tip, kissing him through the simstim link.  `Gotta
Then she raised her left, smiled, touched her open palm with
  `Case,' she said, and paused, the fletcher in her right hand. 
music.
in a broad shallow curve.  Faint blue light, moving shadows,
five-meter gash in the tunnel wall, uneven stairs leading down
  The entrance to 3Jane's world had no door.  It was a ragged
horns and piano.
  Case noticed the music then.  A music he didn't know, all
to the dark false sand.
legs, the shredded remnants disguising themselves as they fell
lycarbon like rotten silk.  She freed herself from the arms and
with a single gesture, her thumb blade parting the tough po-
the neck of the Modern suit and ripped it open to the crotch
that, and replaced it with another.  She hooked her thumb in
from its holster, snapped the plastic magazine out, pocketed
pain -- away from Riviera's childhood.  She drew the fletcher
  And then she was walking -- strolling, really, in spite of the
gonna party.'
`But you talked her into letting me in.  Thanks.  Now we're
your taste runs that way.  Demon lover.  Peter.'  She shivered. 
petty thief.  So Wintermute dug you up.  The ultimate taste, if
3Jane, she's too jaded now to open the back door for just any
`Quite the product, aren't you, Peter?  But you had to be.  Our
  `Bonn,' she said, something like gentleness in her voice. 
throat open to the sky.  They were feeding.
on their contorted faces.  The soldier on his back, mouth and
  Children.  Feral, in rags.  Teeth glittering like knives.  Sores
spat, then stood.
Case had quite assimilated it, because he felt her tense.  She
was confusing at first.  Molly must have read it correctly before
At its base, the children and the soldier were frozen.  The tableau
there was a sort of stump, something that suggested a fountain. 
there.  The foreground might once have been a city square;
gracefully as fine string, vast slabs of concrete still clinging
rubble wave was textured like a net, rusting steel rods twisted
its crest the bleached, half-melted skeletons of city towers.  The
  A dark wave of rubble rose against a colorless sky, beyond
torture, all had been freestanding displays.  But this was a view.
had had backgrounds; the figures, uniforms, instruments of
from the vantage point of a small child.  None of the others
time.  She had to kneel to examine it; it had been projected
had had to drag across some private distance of memory and
  The last was small and dim, as if it were an image Riviera
them.
in the blue flash of orgasm.  Molly looked away as she passed
show at the Vingtime Sicle, as though they had been frozen
ably young women.  These had the awful intensity of Riviera's
the inquisitors always military officers and the victims invari-
Riviera's shattered body.  Several others were scenes of torture,
in the alley behind the Spice Bazaar, as it tore itself free of
entrance to 3Jane's apartments.  One depicted the eyeless thing
  She passed a dozen more holograms before she reached the
was expensive.  What they called atmosphere.
ments.  A rich kid's hideout, he thought.  This kind of roughness
built with other children on rooftops and in flooded sub-base-
gested childhood, somehow.  He remembered fortresses he'd
expansion grating.  The style of the improvised fixture sug-
cent globe set into the wall, protected by a rusty curve of
  She passed the source of yellow light, an archaic incandes-
tossing it away.
he can jack into these and program them direct,' she said,
were gone.  She bent and picked up a small display unit.  `Guess
of the holo-Molly.  Metal clinked against the wall and the figures
she stepped forward and kicked at something between the feet
  `Tryin'~ to tell us something, Peter?' she asked softly.  Then
of the black trees in Armitage's frozen Siberian eyes.
It was a static display, the only movement the silent gusting
  Molly stepped back.  She looked from one figure to another. 
but then he usually did.
a forgettable face beneath short dark hair.  He needed a shave,
of the one he glimpsed daily in mirrors.  Thin, high-shouldered,
ody.  The figure that slouched there was a fair approximation
responsible -- had been unable to find anything worthy of par-
if Riviera -- and Case had known instantly that Riviera was
vision eyes, then turned to the figure of Case.  Here, it was as
  She passed the tips of her fingers through Armitage's tele-
bending in silent winds.
howling waste of snow, the stripped black trunks of evergreens
itor screens, each one displaying the blue-gray image of a
Case saw, as Molly stepped carefully forward, were tiny mon-
rigidly at attention in a threadbare khaki uniform.  His eyes,
fixed in a leer of idiotic cruelty.  Beside her, Armitage stood
hiders.  Her legs were spread, pelvis canted forward, her mouth
lost beneath a flanged overlay of scope sights, silencers, flash
absurdly elaborate weapon of some kind, a pistol shape nearly
narrow.  Silvered lenses covered half her face.  She held an
mesh beneath a heavy leather jacket.  Her waist was impossibly
Case.  Molly's breasts were too large, visible through tight black
caricatures in light, lifesize cartoons: Molly, Armitage, and
to realize that the thing was a recording.  The figures were
of triptych.  She lowered the fletcher before Case had had time
  The first of the holos waited just beyond the curve, a sort
the un-sand of the floor.  A red LED blinked.  The Braun.
  Something scurried between her legs and went ticking across
  But she wasn't lost, he told himself.
ror for cowboys.
thoroughly lost now; spatial disorientation held a peculiar hor-
meant that she'd had to descend again, after the climb.  He was
realized that the gravity here was near earth normal, which
ows on the seamed pseudo-rock of the walls.  With a start, Case
ahead, the tunnel curved.  Harsh yellow light threw hard shad-
like a fluid, leaving the surface undisturbed.  A dozen meters
cool and dry, but when she drew her finger through it, it closed
spread across the floor of the imitation tunnel.  It felt like sand,
and felt like cold stone.  She knelt and touched the dark sand
the steel was sheathed with panels of something that looked
solid rock.  Molly examined its edge and he saw that in fact
by what Case at first took to be a rough tunnel blasted from
  The bare steel and scabrous epoxy ended abruptly, replaced
corridor.
sonality.'  She drew her fletcher and limped away down the
communicate with us.  Called it a template.  Model of per-
it's like he uses real profiles as valves, gears himself down to
like the Finn or somebody, he told me that.  It's not just a mask,
down in that cubicle... lotta stuff...  Why he has to come on
puppet of Ashpool's, I guess.  Can't figure why he'd tell me,
the Tessier half, 3Jane's genetic mother.  And of that dead
man, Wintermute?  He tell you about Marie-France?  She was
  She winced, got to her feet, nodded.  `What's he told you,
  CASE.
resins.  `Shit, man, I don't even know if you're listening.'
The floor here was raw lunar concrete and the air smelled of
Okay?'  She glanced around the empty hallway, the bare walls. 
Tell him it was me.  Got it?  Just say it was Molly.  He'll know. 
Modern polycarbon and Paris leather -- `I want you to tell him. 
and she stretched her leg, kneaded the flesh of her thigh through
lem here.  What it is, if I buy it here, before Riviera does' --
it, much longer.  So maybe -- just maybe, right? -- I got a prob-
Didn't figure any climb like that, and the endorphin won't cut
from beneath thumb and forefinger.  `Leg's not good, you know? 
picked at a rip in the plastic on the topmost plate, blades sliding
each plate protected by an uneven coating of clear plastic.  She
herself to sit on a stack of polished steel plates, the finish of
  `Case,' she said, `I wanna favor.'  Stiffly, she lowered
  One and a half hours.
  07:02:18.
Yakuza's inner sanctum.
tale castle and a half-remembered childhood fantasy of the
light he would have expected, some cross between Cath's fairy
little song.  And none of this was anything like the Villa Stray-
dark skulls gleaming, nodding, while the one still sang his tired
them gliding gently through the halls of Straylight, their smooth
and for Case they'd taken on a sort of imaginary life; he pictured
  She'd seen no one since the two Africans and their cart,
pound, circular doors of black glass trimmed with chrome.
obviously the entrance to Tessier-Ashpool's cryogenic com-
wich protecting the broken glass.  There had been what was
touched this, her artificial nails clicking against the Lexan sand-
mise  nu par ses clibataires, mme.'_  She'd reached out and
gaze had tracked the brass plaque automatically -- _`La marie
shattered, dust-stenciled sheet of glass, a thing labeled -- her
where Case had stared, through Molly's incurious eyes, at a
that followed a code of letters and numbers; a crowded gallery
of cloth or leather, the shelves marked at intervals by labels
million flat leaves of yellowing paper pressed between bindings
gone.  There had been a room filled with shelves of books, a
many things that Case hadn't understood, but his curiosity was
clenched, and carefully regulated her breathing.  She'd passed
wasn't sure what that meant.  She didn't speak, kept her teeth
to work its jagged way back through the endorphins, and he
her goal or out of concern for her leg.  The pain was starting
  Molly had slowed now, either knowing that she was nearing
soon to wake again.
dull business temporarily suspended, of futility and repetition
a waking world he had no interest in visiting or knowing, of
same sense of being surrounded by the sleeping inhabitants of
the all-night click and shudder of the hot core.  There was that
Fringe places, just past the borders of the Sprawl, too far from
around caged bulbs above the entrance of darkened shops. 
expectancy, a tension that left you watching insects swarm
where the small hours brought a fitful stillness, a kind of numb
ping centers he'd known as a teenager, low-density places
  Straylight reminded Case of deserted early morning shop-

remember?'
  `I wanna be erased,' the construct said.  `I told you that,
tweed back recede.
  `What's that mean?' Case asked, as he watched the narrow
  `You'll get yours,' it said.
me?  What about my payoff?'
a dozen paces.  The figure paused, half turned.  `What about
  `Hey, asshole,' the Flatline said, when the Finn had gone
ets and began trudging back up the green arch.
  `Well, good luck,' the Finn said.  He turned, hands in pock-
larynx.
ragged knot in the rusty scarf.  His thumbs deep in the Finn's
and get his fingers around the figure's throat, just above the
  Case fought back an insane urge to punch himself forward
payoff.'
are me now, that'll still be here.  And you'll get your
glanced up and around the matrix.  `But the parts of me that
gonna be part of something bigger.  Much bigger,' The Finn
I just don't know.  But when this is over, we do it right, I'm
of your lifetimes.  Because I've given it a lot of thought.  And
let's call 'em speculations, on the topic, it would take a couple
why.  If I were gonna subject you to my very own thoughts,
  `Well, I'm under compulsion myself.  And I don't know
  `No,' Case said.
These fish, see, they're _compelled_ to swim upstream.  Got it?'
question,' he said, finally.  `You know salmon?  Kinda fish? 
regarded it critically, like a surgeon examining a scalpel.  `Good
  The Finn took a wooden toothpick from his pocket and
loose from the hardwiring?'
where, where exactly, are all our asses gonna _be,_ we cut you
system?  Who's going to get Molly back out of there?  I mean,
going to tell me how to get these fucking toxin sacs out of my
mitage is dead, and you're gonna be gone, just who exactly is
  `Okay, then who we gonna be dealing with then?  If Ar-
  The Finn's streamlined skull nodded.
the word into the right slot.'
you said you wouldn't exist, if the run goes off and Molly gets
`you told me you were just a part of something else.  Later on,
  `Wintermute,' Case said, choosing the words carefully,
to, you know?'
I guess I did give 3Jane the odd hint, a little of the old how- 
flicked his butt away into the matrix below.  `Well, actually,
she got him with an eyeball full of shellfish juice.'  The Finn
he'd killed himself, and your friend the avenging angel figures
tem.  Subtle, too.  So basically, _she_ killed him.  Except he figured
a way to fiddle the program that controlled his cryogenic sys-
what sent him over the edge for good and all, little 3Jane figured
why he killed his wife, mainly, you want the short reason.  But
The Finn's face wrinkled with disgust.  `It's all tied in with
going back into the freezer.  Christ, he was a tedious old fuck.' 
terrelate.  He was ready to do it for a long time, but he kept
to explain the various factors in his history and how they in-
I know, if anybody does, but it would take me twelve hours
  `Why's anybody kill himself?'  The figure shrugged.  `I guess
  `Why'd he kill himself?' Case asked.
ample.'  He sighed.
wandering in on Ashpool's big exit scene, give you one ex-
him to.  My projections said there wasn't much chance of Molly
construct, just a buncha ROM, so he always does what I expect
here, if you were all like him, it would be real simple.  He's a
  `You guys,' the Finn said, `you're a pain.  The Flatline
lit up one of his Partagas.
  Case watched blue smoke billow in cyberspace as the Finn
coupla hours now, right?'
deal stand.  You got enough time.  I'll give it to you.  Only a
told him what to use.  But I think maybe it's better to let the
I was the one gave it to Armitage in the first place.  I mean I
know, I know, you wanna get the enzyme.  Okay.  No sweat. 
  `Corto.  Yeah.  Armitage was already gone.  Hadda do it.  I
  `You killed Armitage,' Case said.
his hands bunched in the pockets of his frayed jacket.
  `I never tried it before,' the Finn said, showing his teeth,
But the eerie nonlaugh didn't come.
away.  `I never seen anything this funny when I was alive.' 
short, rumpled figure of the Finn seemed to stand a few meters
  `Gotta hand it to you, boss,' the Flatline said, when the
of the cracked black shoes.
chrome of the virus program rolling back, a few steps ahead
As it came, the green section of the arch extended, the poly-
Kuang Grade Mark Eleven, and Case saw that it was walking. 
T-A cores.  It began to advance, across the bridge built by
  A brownish dot, a dull gnat against the green wall of the
  `Yeah.  I see it.  Don't know if I believe it.'
  `Dixie...'
peared on the far end of one of the emerald arches.
  Something small and decidedly nongeometric had just ap-
  `Sure.'
black ice.'
  `You wish.  Wait'll you're steering that thing upstairs through
Case said.
  `If this kinda shit was on the street; we'd be out a job,'
what a real war would be like, now...'
This baby takes all the drudgery out of it.  Makes you wonder
fiftieth of what they were worth.  But that's ancient history. 
time in Singapore.  Did the old New Bank of Asia for a good
  `Fine.  Too slick.  Thing's amazing...  Shoulda had one that
  `How's it go Dixie?'
orless void.
representing the T-A cores.  Arches of emerald across the col-
rainbow tints gradually dominated by the green of the rectangle
  The Chinese program was face to face with the target ice,

  He flipped.
dead.'
  `Dead,' he said, knowing she couldn't hear him, `he's
soon,' she muttered.  `And Armitage.  Where's he, Case?'
  `Wonder where our Peter is now, huh?  Maybe see that boy
crete.
  Whole stretches were being stripped back to steel and con-
Straylight?
  But what was happening now, in the corridors of Villa
influence.
that implied connection, invisible lines up to hidden levels of
ganism.  It was the root of street cool, too, the knowing posture
accommodation of the machine, the system, the parent or-
lack of feeling.  He'd always imagined it as a gradual and willing
City, and it had allowed him to accept Armitage's flatness and
Memphis, he'd seen Wage affect the semblance of it in Night
than _people._  He'd seen it in the men who'd crippled him in
the kingpins in a given industry, would be both more and less
  Case had always taken it for granted that the real bosses,
they hadn't.
he remembered Molly saying.  But Wintermute had told her
aimlessness.  `If they'd turned into what they wanted to...'
The same ragged tangle of fears, the same strange sense of
Tessier-Ashpool, then T-A was crazy as the old man had been. 
If Straylight was an expression of the corporate identity of
memories, vast single organisms, their DNA coded in silicon? 
zaibatsus more like that, or the Yakuza, hives with cybernetic
wasps, time-lapse machine gun of biology.  But weren't the
  Wintermute and the nest.  Phobic vision of the hatching
turned left, through another archway.
  The Braun plucked at the hood of the Modern suit and Molly
sleeves.  One foot bare, the other in a velvet slipper.
of it, the ragged spines of the old audio disks in their paper
bered the litter of the old man's chamber, the soiled humanity
death of its founder.  T-A was an atavism, a clan.  He remem-
Ashpool wasn't like that, and he sensed the difference in the
sition, access the vast banks of corporate memory.  But Tessier- 
others waiting to step up the ladder, assume the vacated po-
zaibatsu by assassinating a dozen key executives; there were
they had attained a kind of immortality.  You couldn't kill a
history, had transcended old barriers.  Viewed as organisms,
batsus, the multinationals that shaped the course of human
  Power, in Case's world, meant corporate power.  The zai-
erful as he imagined Ashpool had been, as human.
never really thought of anyone like Ashpool, anyone as pow-
cast sensory input through the corridors of Straylight, that he'd
with 3Jane's face.  It seemed to Case, as he rode Molly's broad-
And he'd killed the puppet he'd called his daughter, the one
a more puzzling death, Ashpool's, the death of a mad king. 
of whatever expert overdose he'd mixed for himself.  That was
drilled through the eye with Molly's microscopic dart, deprived
  He thought of the toxin sacs.  Old Ashpool was dead too,
was dead, a small frozen moon for Freeside.
faced, with his guilt and his sick fury.  And now Corto-Armitage
point, the Armitage mechanism had crumbled; Corto had sur-
Corto, and when the stress of the run had reached a certain
in flame...  Armitage had been a sort of edited version of
mitage had recalled the betrayal, the Nightwings whirling down
have been Corto's after a certain point.  Case doubted if Ar-
Fist as the foundation.  But Armitage's `memories' wouldn't
Armitage up from scratch, with Corto's memories of Screaming
in a darkened room in a French asylum.  Wintermute had built
the first messages blinking across the face of a child's micro
like a water spider crossing the face of some stagnant pool,
detritus, gliding into the man's flat gray field of consciousness
Wintermute found him, sifting him out of all of the war's ripe
Corto.  History had already done the really messy work, when
ing a length of wire.  And history had done that for Colonel
direction, reverse and twist again.  The man broke.  Like break-
a man far enough, then twist him as far back, in the opposite
madness, which he now imagined he could understand; twist
But it wasn't a craziness he understood.  Not like Armitage's
dimentia they'd shipped up the well to line their winding nest. 
welded steel and tons of knick-knacks, all the bizarre impe-
concrete they'd mixed from pulverized lunar stone, grown in
place.  Straylight was crazy, was craziness grown in the resin
to him as she worked her way deeper into the maze of the
  The head's speech, 3Jane's essay on Straylight, came back
melody alien and haunting.
to himself in a language Case had never heard, the tones and
shaven heads and wore orange coveralls.  One was singing softly
Africans and their balloon-tired workcart passed.  The men had
cradled in her hands, her suit steel-gray, while the two slender
away.  She'd hidden from a work crew, crouching, the fletcher
ribbons of epoxy where some kind of covering had been ripped
  The walls here were raw steel, striped with rough brown
cure in the polycarbon of the Modern suit.
shoulder, its tiny manipulators, like padded surgical clips, se-
through a warm bath.  The Braun drone was perched on her
hangover.  The pain in her leg was gone; she seemed to move
hour, letting the endorphin analog she'd taken blot out his
following her progress through Villa Straylight for over an
  06:27:52 by the chip in her optic nerve; Case had been

  He hit the simstim switch.
gettin'~ smart.'
Case's nerves like a dull blade.  `Maybe that means you're
  The construct's hideous approximation of laughter scraped
  `I don't exactly trust Wintermute to give it to me.'
  `So Wintermute knows too.  Count on it.'
  `He knew how to unbond the toxin sacs.'
buddies, were you?'
  `Tough shit,' the Flatline said.  `Weren't exactly asshole
with a hatch open.'
  `Wintermute killed Armitage.  Blew him out in a lifeboat
lattices fine as snow crystal on a winter window.
and the T-A ice with hypnotically intricate traceries of rainbow,
  Kuang Grade Mark Eleven was filling the grid between itself
  `Get what you went for?' the construct asked.

        17



folds spread out around him like the wings of some huge bat.
he imagined him in his dark Burberry, the trenchcoat's rich
side, through vacuum colder than the steppes.  For some reason,
  But Case was seeing Armitage's endless fall around Free-
wi'~ bridge.  _Marcus Garvey_ still stuck.'
  `Yacht, she tight for air, but bossman takin'~ grapple control
clacked against Lexan.
  Case tried to wipe the tears of rage from his eyes.  His fingers
open.  Mute mus'~ override ejection failsafe.'
  `'Im gone, mon.'  Maelcum looked at the monitor.  `Hatch
of Screaming Fist.
from his couch, from Wintermute's rendition of the final minute
clawing hurricane of escaping air tearing mad Colonel Corto
lifeboat jolting free, blown clear by explosive bolts, a second's
some huge soft thing had struck her hull.  Case imagined the
crystal droplets.  Then _Haniwa_ thudded, once, shivered as if
broke from his lashes, rebounding off the faceplate in wobbling
  `Wintermute,' Case screamed, `don't do this to me!'  Tears
we...'
very young.  `We are down, repeat, Omaha Thunder is down,
Fragments of Russian, and then a stranger's voice, Midwestern,
static, harmonics howling down the years from Screaming Fist. 
  And then the helmet filled with a confused babble, roaring
  `Remember the training, Case.  That's all we can do.'
pads.
high with hysteria.  Feedback shrilled out of the helmet's phone
of the enzyme, the enzyme, man...'  He was shouting, voice
you'll never get to tell 'em, and I gotta get the enzyme, name
swear to God, they've left your hatch open.  You'll die, and
hit the fucking _trees._  And they're trying to get you, Corto.  I
  `Corto, stop.  Wait.  You're _blind,_ man.  You can't fly!  You'll
so hard, Case, so goddam hard.  I'm blind.'
silence; Case felt it fill his helmet like some rare gas.  `But it's
it, Case.  I know I'll make it.  To Helsinki.'  There was a sudden
tell them all of it.  About Girling and the others.  And I'll make
If we all go down here, it ends here.  I'll tell them.  Case, I'll
be this way.  One of us has to get out.  One of us has to testify. 
His helmet struck the far wall.  `I'm sorry, Case, but it has to
Armitage's now.  It held a weird calm.  Case stopped kicking. 
  `Case?  Read you, Case...'  The voice barely resembled
Don't do it!  We gotta talk!  We gotta --'
of zero-g sent him tumbling back through the printout.  `Corto! 
  `Armitage!'  Case tried to pound on the door.  The physics
Launchin'~ wi'~ lock open.'
particular line on the screen.  `Seals not intact, bridge module. 
his suit's transceiver, `but countdown's wrong.'  He tapped a
connections closed.  `No seh Japanese,' Maelcum said, over
LED monitors to the left of the faceplate lit as the neck ring
smoothly, the palms of his gloves smacking the seals.  Micro- 
cum snatched the helmet from Case and ringed it for him
of the purple cotton net the Zionite wore over his locks.  Mael-
He saw a bead of sweat arc out from the rainbow braided band
his helmet.  Case could see his lips moving, through the Lexan. 
open this door, man!'  But Maelcum could only tap the side of
bulkhead and shot through the tangle of printout.  `We gotta
  `What?  He's takin'~ off?  Shit!'  He kicked off from the
it.  Suit up now.'  He ringed his helmet and slapped at the seals.
  `Bridge is escape pod, lifeboat.  Countin'~ down, looks like
  `No,' Case said.
Case could see figures blinking past on the screen.
and swung to study the display.  `You read Japanese, mon?' 
his forehead with a foam patch on the back of a gloved hand,
monitor.  Maelcum jerked apprehensively, wiped sweat from
  A panel beside Maelcum's head slid up, revealing a small
lights, Wintermute?'
space scrawled with drifting curves of paper.  `That you on the
termute?'  He looked around the beige and brown lounge, the
  Case ripped the printout from its slot.  More zeros.  `Win-
  The lights dimmed, surged, dimmed again.
side of the lounge.
  `Bridge locked, mon,' Maelcum said, from the opposite
computer.  `Good guess,' he said to Maelcum.
blackened.  Tiny spheres of bright alloy were orbiting the dead
at least a dozen times.  The holes were small, circular, edges
turned and stared at the Hosaka.  Its face had been drilled through,
a white stud to the left of the slot.  The chattering stopped.  He
pulled himself over the circle of chairs and reached it, punching
head unit, a neat slot in a panel of handrubbed veneer.  He
still spewing its flimsy tongue of paper, was an in-built bulk-
something that resembled a bar, and the Hosaka.  The printer,
in his passage.  There were more of the articulated chairs, here,
shredding and crumpling the lengths of printout that snared him
  Case followed him into a larger space, a kind of lounge,
  Maelcum frowned, rolled backward, and kicked.
  `So find us the bridge.'
easy myself.  Ver'~ new boat...'
  `Well, this Japan-boy, he not be pilotin'~.  Doubt I pilot her
  `Maybe.  He was Special Forces.'
  `He know how pilot boat, Case, bossman?'
membering Corto's postwar pilgrimage.
  `Wonder how long he had that on him?' Case said, re-
garrotte, like worn sections of broom handle.
the crude wooden handles that drifted at either end of the
like some strange precious stone, a red-black pearl.  Case saw
his larynx.  A single sphere of dark blood had congealed there
black temperfoam of the headrest, and it had cut as deeply into
fine steel wire.  The wire was invisible, where it crossed the
of the narrow articulated chair with a length of some sort of
  The man was small, Japanese, his throat bound to the back
  `Case, mon...'
it away from his face.
machine and shot through the floating maze of paper, batting
braced his foot against the white cage of a Swiss exercise
  `Smell like he wipe 'em wi'~ laser, ya know?'  The Zionite
line said Armitage wiped the Hosaka he had in there.'
  `No,' Case said, grabbing for his drifting helmet, `the Flat-
column of zeros.
  `Systems crash?'  The Zionite flicked a gloved finger at the

    0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
    0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
    0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

twisted paper and glanced at it.
a swirling mass of tangled printout.  Case snatched a length of
louder as he followed Maelcum through another doorway, into
familiar chatter of a printer turning out hard copy.  It grew
effortless kick.  From somewhere ahead, Case made out the
walled corridor, `be there.'  He launched himself with another
rail.  `Bridge,' Maelcum said, pointing down a seamless, cream-
lowed him clumsily, hand over hand, along a waist-high padded
shoulders, at the last possible instant, for clearance.  Case fol-
sailed neatly through the narrow opening, twisting his broad
back into its housing.  Maelcum kicked off the ebony wall and
  A door, padded with dark gray ultrasuede, slid smoothly
that...'
  Maelcum sniffed.  `Trouble here, mon.  Any boat, you smell
tion.
faintly of pine.  Under it, a disturbing edge of burning insula-
his lead.  They hung there in the lock, breathing air that smelled
  When Maelcum removed his battered helmet, Case followed
culated to add to the overall impression of speed.
was simply styling, and everything about her interior was cal-
never been intended for re-entry.  Her smooth, wasplike line
shower.  The yacht, which had been assembled in orbit, had
he were invading some rich man's private spa by way of the
veneer and floored with gray Italian tiles.  Case felt as though
Istanbul.  The narrow midbay was walled in imitation ebony
had produced the Mercedes that had chauffeured them through
interior informed by a design philosophy similar to the one that
  _Haniwa_ was a product of the Dornier-Fujitsu yards, her

hand and Case with the other.  The lock took them with it.
into the side of _Haniwa._  Maelcum grabbed the recess with one
and bones.  The round segment of gray hull began to withdraw
hatch, felt the vibration of the lock mechanism through his suit
withdrew his hand.  Case, with one glove braced against the
came to life in the recess, counting down from fifty.  Maelcum
hand in a narrow recess.  Case saw his fingers move.  Red LEDs
creamy gray, blank and pristine.  Maelcum inserted his gloved
with a laser-carved Lion of Zion.  _Haniwa_'s midbay hatch was
  _Garvey_'s airlock hatch was patched and pitted, decorated
sunlight; there were no shadows.
_Garvey._  The white plastic sides of the tube filtered the raw
who'd gone into an awkward tumble as he'd stepped out of
the passage with balletic grace, only pausing to help Case,
_Haniwa,_ but they kept their suits sealed.  Maelcum executed
cus Garvey_'s aft lock to the midbay lock of the yacht called
  There was air in the corrugated gangway that led from _Mar-

there...'
mon.  Measure twice, cut once, wise man put it.  We get up
  The Zionite kicked off from the pink pilot module.  `Easy,
  `Maelcum, Christ, help me with this goddam suit.'
`Got a medical kit, ya know.'
  `Bossman, he _poison_ you?'  Maelcum scratched his cheek. 
how to work the seals.
rat.'  He fumbled with the front of the red Sanyo, forgetting
knows how to counter it, and now he's crazier than a shithouse
Texas catheter.  `Like a slow poison, and that asshole upstairs
  `And get this goddam thing off me...'  Tugging at the
der of his old Sanyo as Case struggled out of the g-web.
  `Poison?'  Maelcum watched over the scratched blue shoul-

out.
  `The toxins,' Case said, `the fucking toxins,' and jacked
  `Boy, I think you just lost me, there,' the Flatline said.
  The lozenge vanished.
Then we can talk about getting out of here.'
to open it, right?  We'll be up there with you fast, Colonel. 
  `Open the midbay lock.  Just tell your central console there
  `The midbay lock,' the Flatline said.
you to open the, ah... shit, what's it called, Dix?'
  `Colonel, I hear you, man.  Listen, Colonel, okay?  I want
pensive surgery.
illness etched deep in involuntary muscle, distorting the ex-
masklike, impassive, but Corto's was the true schizoid mask,
dark stains on his torn twill shirt.  Armitage's face had been
above.  From _above...'_  He stepped back from the camera,
bones slick with tears.  `Only the beginning.  Betrayal from
be the beginning.'  The blue eyes slitted above tanned cheek-
flying on manual.  Seat of the pants, boy.  But that will only
We can make the Finnish border, nightfall tomorrow.  Treetop
  `Our duty at this point, Case, lies in flight.  Escape.  Evasion. 
exactly should we do?  Now, I mean.'
I do.  Sir,' he added, on impulse.  `But, sir, Colonel, what
  `Yeah,' Case said, as the tears continued to flow, `I guess
You do know the man of whom I speak.'
  `General Girling, Case.  You may know him by a code name. 
  `Colonel, ah, who?  Who's betrayed us?'
  Tears started from the blue eyes.
God is my witness, we have been betrayed.'
You're an officer.  The training.  I understand.  But, Case, as
  `Case, this will be difficult for you to accept, I know that. 
  Falling, burned and blinded, out of a Siberian sky.
But where had Corto _been,_ those years?
itage was gone, blown away by the winds of Corto's madness. 
termute in that room in the Chiba Hilton...  And now Arm-
talked, schemed, bartered data for capital, fronted for Win-
that Armitage was the real thing, and Armitage had walked,
into a catatonic fortress named Corto.  Had convinced Corto
guished eyes.  Wintermute had built something called Armitage
  _But where have you been, man?_ he silently asked the an-
  `Hang in there, boy.  Remember your training.'
  `Say.  I...  Colonel?'
  `Case, I need the damage reports on Omaha Thunder.'
in _Marcus Garvey._
was using the _Haniwa_'s navigation deck to link with the Hosaka
his way back.  The image was dim, jerky, badly focused.  Corto
Corto, Special Forces, Strikeforce Screaming Fist, had found
up of mad blue eyes.  Case could only stare.  Colonel Willie
  A white lozenge snapped into position, filled with a close-
  `Okay.  But Wintermute said that Arm --'
Ripe for virus.  Looks good for us, once we're past that ice.'
ceptions.  Kinda like your immune system falling apart on you. 
has riddled the banks with all kinds of private scams and ex-
like one of T-A's main problems is that every family bigwig
been able to fiddle entrances and exits for years.  Looks to me
his Hosaka; Riviera must've talked 3Jane into doing it.  She's
to get Molly in, though.  Armitage had a record of all that on
don't ask me how.  Couldn't override the basic gate program
tems keep trying to go full alert, but Wintermute blocks 'em,
from Melbourne'll know the score.  The Straylight security sys-
else she's just as crazy as her old man was.  But the boy up
I figure Wintermute's got somethin'~ goin'~ with this 3Jane, or
etration of the T-A core is 08:30:00.  Or a hair on either side. 
virus at 02:32:03.  It's 04:45:20.  Best estimate for Kuang pen-
give his Straylight ETA as 09:00:00, tonight.  We slotted Kuang
he's on his way home, or near as matters.  The London lawyers
cause that business to need this 8Jean's personal attention.  But
on business.  You ask me, I bet Wintermute found a way to
Marie-France.  There's a male, couple years older, in Australia
the only T-A awake in Straylight right now is Lady 3Jane
urrection crew with much to work with.  Shellfish toxin.  But
in his sternum.  Not that your girl's dart would've left a res-
  `The law firm and T-A.  He had a medical remote planted
  `Who knows?'
old man's dead.'
through the Hosaka on the yacht.  Incidently, they know the
mitage was routing the transmissions from London to Straylight
attorney.  Has to know who's awake and exactly when.  Ar-
There's a law firm in London keeps track of their powers of
pin'~ with Tessier-Ashpools is that they're mostly in cold sleep. 
before it went black.  The reason Straylight's not exactly hop-
with it.  But your pal Wintermute put me on to somethin'~ there
wiped the bank on that other Hosaka, and damn near took ours
  `Well, it's gettin'~ stickier,' the Flatline said.  `Your boss
icate arches of shifting polychrome were nearing the T-A ice.
  `Yeah.'  He saw that the Chinese program had grown, del-
  `Get my wire?'

  Case jacked in and flipped for the matrix.
beat, `but we mus'~ move by Jah love, each one.'
  `Don'~ 'stan'~ you, mon,' the Zionite said, nodding to the
  Case stared.  `I don't understand you guys at all,' he said.
nin'~, no.  I talk wi'~ Aerol, he certain t'~ see it in similar light.'
dub came pulsing from the tug's speakers.  `Maelcum not run-
hand slapped a panel and the bass-heavy rocksteady of Zion
`Maelcum a rude boy, Case.  _Garvey_ Maelcum boat.'  His gloved
  Maelcum's smile spread across his face like light breaking. 
and fuck you.  I'm stayin'~ right here.'
ribs.  `Fuck this,' he said.  `Fuck Armitage, fuck Wintermute,
found his anger again, real as a shard of hot rock beneath his
  `I dunno.  Nobody's woman, maybe.'  He shrugged.  And
captive balloon of crocheted cotton.  `She you woman, Case?'
  Maelcum nodded, the dreadbag bobbing behind him like a
her, she ain't comin'~ out, Steppin'~ Razor or not.'
it's called.  If there's any Babylon, man, that's it.  We leave on
suit.  `She's inside,' he said.  `Molly's inside.  In Straylight,
cum's chin was hidden by the high helmet ring of his old blue
looked back up.  The brown face was calm now, intent.  Mael-
looked down at his desk, at his hands.  `I don't know.'  He
  `I dunno, man,' he said, a strange taste in his mouth.  He
herself up the endless steel rungs.  He opened his eyes.
sacs of toxin dissolving in his arteries.  He saw Molly hauling
from the old Russian scrubber.  He closed his eyes.  He saw the
the hammock where he'd snapped it, swaying in the air current
  Case glanced over his shoulder: his rented suit swung against
wi'~ ghost cassette, one ghost t'~ 'nother...'
Zion wi'~ Aerol, _Babylon Rocker._  Leave Mr.~ Armitage t'~ talk
  `Mon,' Maelcum said, `you comin'~ wi'~ me.  I an'~ I come
What about me, Maelcum?'
  `Okay,' Case said `So what about me?  You're going home. 
  `Can't seh, ya know?  But blood, an'~ stone crazy, Case.'
  `Armitage, he was wounded?  Blood?'
mus'~ 'bandon _Marcus Garvey_ and return.'
seh the Mute voice be false prophet surely, an'~ Aerol an'~ I
swaying and bobbing in zero-g, his lips narrowed.  `Founders
shall be on our hands.'  He shook his head again, the dreadcap
talkin'~ screamin'~ fists an'~ Russian an'~ th'~ blood of th'~ betrayers
screen wi'~ his shirt all blood, mon, an'~ be crazy as some dog,
know?  He tellin'~ me there be hope, ya know?  Come on my
  `Mon, Armitage, he tellin'~ me set course for Finland, ya
you orders?  What?'
really feel this bad.  `What do you mean, man?  He's giving
or simstim.  Brain's got no nerves in it, he told himself, it can't
over hit him with its full intensity, unscreened by the matrix
  `Armitage?'  Case winced as the betaphenethylamine hang-
brown hand across his mouth.
wi'~ Zion, Founders seh cut an'~ run.'  He ran the back of a large
Maelcum shook his head.  `Aerol an'~ I talkin'~, an'~ Aerol talkin'~
callin'~ down here wi'~ _orders,_ mon, but be some Babylon war...' 
cotton yarn.  His eyes were slitted with ganja and tension.  `Keep
his dreadlocks bagged in a net cap crocheted from purple
one Case had rented in Freeside, its helmet under his arm and
wearing a blue Sanyo vacuum suit twenty years older than the
  `Mon, you bossman gone ver'~ strange.'  The Zionite was
  `Maelcum...'

  Case jacked out.
rungs.  `Nobody told me about this part,' she said.
into vanishing perspective, the Braun picking its way up the
up.  Nothing at all.  She tongued her amps and the tube rose
of the Chubb key that dangled between her breasts.  She looked
There was a faint circle of light, no larger than the brass round
right leg, `guess you got problems too.'  She looked down. 
  `Well,' she said, pausing, taking all of her weight on her

    : : D I X I E
    A S S : : : :
    Y O U R
    W A T C H
    I N G : : : :
    C R A C K
    H E '~ S
    M E A N S
    O F   G
    M E N T I O N
    S E Z   A '~ S
    W / M U T E
    I R L I N G :
    C T   O F   G
    C O N S T R U
    E   I S   A
    A R M I T A G
    G R I P   O N
    P R I M A R Y
    W / M U T E '~ S
    A G O N : : : :
    T H E   P E N T
    A S S   T O
    S O L D   H I S
    F I S T   A N D
    S C R E A M I N G
    C O R T O   F O R
    T R A I N E D
    I R L I N G : : :
    G E N E R A L   G

of her vision, chopped up by the display circuit.
zeros strobed again and a message stuttered there, in the corner
  `Guess it's for you,' she said, climbing mechanically.  The
    0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 .
    0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
    C A S E : 0 0 0 0

preferred the pain in her leg.
bite of the betaphenethylamine, but Case could still feel it.  He
  It had been a long day.  The clarity of her sensorium cut the
  04:23:04.
  Her chip pulsed the time.
axis.
  She was climbing up out of gravity, toward the weightless
metal tube, barely wide enough for her shoulders.
leg as she began to climb.  The ladder continued up through a
quickly, and she gritted her teeth at the stabbing pain in her
that you're all that shit hot.'  She smiled, but it was gone too
at the black circle.  The drone's LED winked, climbing.  `Not
come down since I signed on with Armitage.'  She looked up
on this bad roll for a while, and you're the only good change
never much expected to make it out of this one anyway.  Been
while I'm feeling confessional, baby, I gotta admit maybe I
of U-shaped steel rungs, toward a narrow dark opening.  `And
  The drone was hoisting itself up a nearly invisible ladder
it looks, I don't like the way it smells...'
the inside of their foreheads or something.  I don't like the way
batshit in here, like they got luminous messages scrawled across
maybe a little less gone, you know?  I mean, these guys are all
a strut, keeping the drone in sight.  `I was expecting something
with Ashpool...'  She gnawed at her lower lip, swinging around
along that way.  Having you in is kinda like that.  That scene
they're telling me what they think about that, and I'll just go
'em what I really think, what I feel like, and then I'll pretend
Pretend I got some friend, somebody I can trust, and I'll tell
talked to myself, in my head, when I've been in tight spots. 
Sure.  And jacked into this.  I like it, you know?  Like I've always
  `How you doin'~, Case?  You back in _Garvey_ with Maelcum? 
steadily, beckoning her on.
a forest of welded steel struts.  The Braun winked its LED
  Then she was off after the Braun, threading her way between
hole left by the elevator panel.
arc lamps.  The red drone waited patiently at the edge of the
meter circle of flooring that sank away into a harsh glare of
of motors and the thing slid smoothly out of sight on a ten-
the gap in the construction boat's hull.  There was a rising whine
and seal the helmet, pick up his console, and step back through
sealing the front of a white vacuum rig.  She watched him ring
back at the service area.  The man in the orange jumpsuit was
back across its girder and into darkness.  She turned and looked
watched the little drone reverse.  It picked its methodical way
said, `I hear you.'  She stood up, favoring her left leg, and
equator.  Its body was no larger than a baseball.  `Okay,' she
black daddy longlegs.  A red LED began to pulse, at the sphere's
a Cleveland hardware fence.  It looked like a stylized matte
pointless accessory he'd obtained as part of a package deal with
microdrone, and Case had once owned the same model, a
second burst of diffuse laserlight, and froze.  It was a Braun
from side to side on high-arched spider legs, fired a micro-
level with her left shoulder.  It paused, swayed its spherical body
  Something came ticking quietly out of the shadows, on a
to Chin,' she muttered.
Her leg hurt, a sharp steady pain now.  `I shoulda gone back
her Modern suit the color of the blue-gray paint on the girders,
  She settled back on her haunches, the arms and knees of
  `Hey,' she said.  `Waiting for a guide.'
  CASE, flashed her chip.
drone rolled into sight on gray balloon tires.
into a portable console and scratched his ribs.  A cartlike red
weirdly anthropomorphic arms.  The man punched something
tion vehicle and stood beside one of the thing's piston-driven,
jumpsuit stepped from a gap in the hull of a bulbous construc-
various stages of repair.  Japanese voices.  A figure in an orange
could see three spacecraft, none larger than _Garvey_ and all in
polished concrete.  The room was a hangar or service bay.  He
steel girders, twenty meters above a broad, stained floor of
  The perspective startled him.  Molly was crouching between

  He flipped.
the construct.
  `Run that back and get the Hosaka to look it up,' he told
  The lozenge went blank.
  `General who?'
  `Not General Girling?'
  `Finn, last time...  Before that, this pimp I...'
  `But _who?'_
  `A high-rez simstim construct.'
his computer -- `what is he, when you see him?'
  `Case' -- and the eyes grew larger, Armitage leaning toward
unable to hear the voices of the construct or Armitage.
imagined Maelcum listening to his tranced half conversations,
Garvey_ would relay the gesture to the _Haniwa_ monitor.  He
  Case nodded.  A camera on the face of his Hosaka in _Marcus
In the matrix.'
behind the blue stare -- `you've seen Wintermute, haven't you? 
  `Case' -- and for an instant something seemed to move,
drop his gaze.  `You okay, Armitage?'
  Armitage stared.  Case resisted the sudden urge to look away,
Like he took care of mine,' Case said.
  `Guess Wintermute took care of your Turings too, huh? 
as buttons.  Armitage blinked.  Stared.
fectly focused, utterly crazy face of Armitage, his eyes blank
hiding the Tessier-Ashpool ice; it showed him the calm, per-
  A lozenge of white light clicked into place in front of him,
  `I know,' Case said, absently, `I saw it.'
riding us piggy-back.  Called the _Haniwa.'_
through on the twin Hosaka in that boat upstairs, the one that's
  `Got your boss on hold,' the Flatline said.  `He's coming

        16



  It was still open when she turned and left the room.
and fathomless, opened slowly.
jerked once, breath halting in mid-intake.  His other eye, brown
put a toxin dart through the center of his closed left eyelid.  He
fletcher, dialed the barrel over to single shot, and very carefully
of drugs and alcohol.  She put his pistol down, picked up her
man's breathing was slow and ragged.  She peered at the litter
  Molly turned.  She crossed the room to Ashpool's chair.  The
swirl like smoke, to take on the outline of Linda's deathmask.
altered the broadcast.  Molly hadn't seen the dead girl's face
moving, somewhere, far away.  He knew that Wintermute had
  `I got your number, fucker,' Case said, feeling his own lips
slender neck.
ran like a leash from the console to a socket at the base of the
the marble top of a bedside table.  A length of fiberoptic ribbon
looking down at a golden laser disk beside a small console on
  Another click, and the room blurred.  Molly was standing,
the face of Linda Lee.
for three seconds, and then the dead face was altered, became
a still frame, her fingers on the girl's cheek.  The freeze held
the world was frozen.  Molly's simstim broadcast had become
  There was a click, deep at the very center of things, and
The face Case had seen in the restaurant.
avoid the blood, and turned the dead girl's face to the light. 
glinted in the dark pool beside her.  Molly knelt, careful to
throat had been slit.  The triangular blade of some sort of scraper
the body of a girl, white shoulder blades slick with blood.  Her
terned rugs.  Twitching a corner of the quilt back, she found
broad puddle of congealed blood, thick and shiny on the pat-
  A vast quilt or comforter was heaped beside the bed, in a
automatic in her hand.
  Up, she snatched the gun.  She stalked the room, Ashpool's
and he began to snore.
tinged with blue.  His head sank back into the waiting leather
  `The dreams grow like slow ice,' he said.  His face was
  The pistol slid from his fingers, bounced on the carpet.
tained with an embedded microchip.'
covered.  `I understand that the effect is now more easily ob-
pliable imitation of autism.'  His head swayed sideways, re-
certain of its own neurotransmitters, resulting in a peculiarly
faintly, and smiled.  `We cause the brain to become allergic to
monitors.  He seemed to shiver.  `Marie-France's eyes ,' he said,
own daughter.'  His gaze swept past her, to the rack of blank
to lie every few decades with what legally amounts to one's
soon no more.  I'd ordered a Jane thawed, when I woke.  Strange,
his one bare foot.  `How I do wander.  Through the cold.  But
the pistol jerking as he convulsed.  He spat on the carpet near
very bed...  But I wander.'  He coughed wetly, the muzzle of
And not a few ladies.  Why, a queen of Spain, once, in that
surely.  In my time, dear Molly, I have known many lords. 
  `A name.  Yes.  To conjure with, perhaps.  A lord of hell,
  `Boss,' she asked him, `you know Wintermute?'
`There are some odd things afoot now, in the Villa Straylight.'
timing, perhaps.  Would you know, Molly?'  The gun rose again. 
and only our sweet 3Jane minding the store.  Or very good
deal with it.  Bad timing, really, with 8Jean down in Melbourne
intelligences were rather a racy concept.  I told the cores I'd
And all the billions we paid, so long ago.  When artificial
remember now.  The cores told me our intelligences are mad. 
nodded.  It cost him an effort to stop it.  `Nothing burns.  I
gun.  His few movements were increasingly sclerotic.  His head
  `Nothing burns there,' he said impatiently, lowering the
  `You can get freezerburn,' she said carefully.
dons in her thighs were drawn tight as wires now.
barrel of the pistol snapped up suddenly, quivering.  The ten-
Over two hundred years, if you count the cold.  The cold.'  The
went winking through the gardens at sunset...  I'm old, Molly. 
pools were terracotta, nursemaids all of chrome, how the limbs
the way rain fills an empty pool.  Calla lilies.  I remember.  The
in, drawn by the cold...  Others following it, filling my head
to hide us from.  Just a drop, at first, one grain of night seeping
outside in, that was it.  The outside.  All the night I built this
Madness, Molly.  Lies.  Of course I dreamed.  The cold let the
dream, in that cold.  They told us we'd never feel cold, either. 
when last I lay me down to sleep.  They told us we wouldn't
I'd been dreaming, you see.  For thirty years.  You weren't born,
they didn't need me to handle you, no.  Something else... but
said, and I was needed.  Were you the something Molly?  Surely
cores woke me.  Twenty hours ago.  Something was afoot, they
  `Whatever comes to mind.  My mind.  It's my party.  The
slightly, beneath her nails.
  `What about?'  She sat.  Case felt the blades move, very
table.  `Sit.  Sit on the floor.  We'll talk.'
  `It isn't poisoned,' he said, but returned the brandy to the
  She shook her head.
then.'  He held out the bottle, his hand shaking.  `Drink.'
would be very Egyptian of me.'  He drank again.  `Come here
But perhaps I'll take you with me tonight, down to hell...  It
a degree of decorum.  That's what I'm doing, you understand. 
  `You are a very rude girl.  Suicides here are conducted with
of here in one piece.'
  `It's my ass, boss, and it's all I got.  I just wanna get it out
thief.'
and then ask to simply walk out?  Really, you amaze me.  A
  He laughed, a harsh high sound.  `You intrude on my suicide
  `I could go out the way I came,' she said.
Molly.  I built all this, and now I'm busy.  Dying.'
is the way to handle tears.'  He drank again.  `I'm busy tonight,
A trickle of the stuff ran from the corner of his mouth.  `That
choose from the half-dozen different liquors.  He drank.  Brandy. 
took a bottle from the table beside him, without bothering to
so young.'  He rested the hand with the pistol on his knee and
  `Then you've already learned an important lesson, for one
  `I spit,' she said.  `The ducts are routed back into my mouth.'
  `But how would you cry, if someone made you cry?'
  `I don't cry, much.'
with sweat.  He was very pale.  Sick, Case decided.  Or drugs.
I'm curious.'  His eyes were red-rimmed, his forehead gleaming
  `How do you cry, Molly?  I see your eyes are walled away. 
glass hypodermic and a plain steel spoon.
velopes spilling white powders.  Case noticed an old-fashioned
table was thick with vials, bottles of liquor, soft plastic en-
beside the chair, knocking over a plastic vial of red pills.  The
but the gun never wavered.  He put her fletcher on a brass table
softness of a huge leather armchair with square chrome legs,
  `Molly.  Mine is Ashpool.'  He sank back into the creased
  `Molly.'
I indulge myself.  What is your name?'
you now.'  Case felt her tense, ready for a move.  `But tonight
  `It would be customary,' the old man said, `for me to kill
without pausing.
the cyberspace deck and the trodes, but her glance slid over it
wide worktable littered with slabs of silicon.  Case registered
cordings, their crumbling spines cased in clear plastic, to a
funken entertainment console to shelves of antique disk re-
to pave the corridors.  Molly's eyes darted from a huge Tele-
lows that seemed to have been made from the kind of rug used
monitors, a wide brass bed heaped with sheepskins, with pil-
sense to Case.  He saw a gray steel rack of old-fashioned Sony
very large, cluttered with an assortment of things that made no
motioned her into the room.  `Slow, darling.'  The room was
slipper with an embroidered gold foxhead over the instep.  He
shawl collar.  One foot was bare, the other in a black velvet
heavy robe of maroon silk, quilted around the long cuffs and
the girl he had glimpsed in the Vingtime Sicle.  He wore a
  He was old, very tall, and his features reminded Case of
invisible string.
gun's barrel seemed to be attached to her throat with a taut,
automatic pistol.  The man's hand was steady enough, now; the
  She got up slowly, her eyes fixed on the muzzle of a black
tugging it out.  `Come visit, child.  Now.'
bling hand entered the front of her suit and found the fletcher,
  `What's this,' said the slurred voice, `fancy dress?'  A trem-
unfocused, breath gone.
with her forehead.  She twisted and lay on her back, her eyes
pitched forward, her striated muscles slack, and struck the door
tone that made Case think of the sound of her fletcher.  She
into the neural disruptor's field, her ears rang, a tiny rising
into the suit to touch the butt of her fletcher.  When she stepped
was too indistinct.  Molly took a step, another, her hand sliding
of a drunk.  Case thought the language might be French, but it
of the passage came a voice, loud and slurred, like the voice
  She hesitated.  From the half-open oak door at the far end
  DANGER.
  GO BACK.
  STOP.
led off to her right.
  `Relax.  There's time.'  She started down the corridor that
  LEFT.
  She shrugged.  `Lemme look around, okay?'
  LEFT.
branched away in three directions.
leg.  More corridors, narrow, their walls hung with rugs.  They
  She arrived at a triangular landing and stood rubbing her
glia.  The walls were splotched with damp.
dled cables hugged the stairwell's ceiling like colorcoded gan-
stairs, her leg beginning to ache.  Overhead, strapped and bun-
  She turned right and started up a freakishly steep flight of
  The corridor narrowed suddenly, curved split.
twinges in her leg...
was bounding smoothly over rolling hillocks of carpets.  Faint
the tip of the spindle; gravity was growing weaker.  Soon she
were gone now, and Case decided they were moving toward
have been the one she'd traveled before.  The glass-fronted cases
  Molly was trotting along a length of corridor that might

  And flipped.
  He jacked back in.
of muscle around the man's dark arms.
radio module.  Case stared at the matted dreadlocks, the ropes
  `Jah love, Case,' Maelcum said, and turned back to his
  `Only game in town, it looks like.'
  `You dealin'~ wi'~ th'~ darkness, mon.'
  `It happens,' he said.  `I'm getting used to it.'
  `You dead awhile there, mon.'
  Into Maelcum's stare.

  Case jacked out.
Kuang's slow but steady.'
  `Well, you got time to kill, kid,' the flatline said.  `Ol'~
whatever's waiting for us behind that ice.'
into a fancy terminal in a certain room, while we take care of
  `It's a code.  A word, he said.  Somebody has to speak it
you.'
  `He,' the construct said.  `He.  Watch that.  It.  I keep telling
ever much he _is_ under control,' he added.
on the hardwiring that keeps Wintermute under control.  How-
  `You were right, Dix.  There's some kind of manual override
through.'
and bellytight with the Tessier-Ashpool core, we're ridin'~ that
  `That's the sting,' the construct said.  `When Kuang's good
ship to the matrix around it.
of its flanks reflecting faint distant lights that bore no relation-
had it, a shark thing, gleaming like obsidian, the black mirrors
would form.  It took a dozen quick, peripheral takes before he
snake eyes.  If he looked directly at that null point, no outline
lucent planes: swastikas, skulls and crossbones, dice flashing
childhood symbols of evil and bad luck tumble out along trans-
ic angles centered in to a silver-black focal point.  Case watched
of the matrix, triggering hypnagogic images.  Faint kaleidoscop-
program.  The density of information overwhelmed the fabric
  Something dark was forming at the core of the Chinese
up through shifting rainbow strata.
  `Does a bear shit in the woods?'  The Flatline punched them
  `Dixie, you think this thing'll work?'
  Kuang Grade Mark Eleven was growing.

  Case flipped.
brushing the checkered grip of the holstered fletcher.
  She turned, opened the door, and stepped out, her hand
like he liked her.'
up.  Freaks like 3Jane.  That's what he called her, but he talked
could've gotten out a long time ago.  But they didn't.  Screwed
`He said if they'd turned into what they'd wanted to, he
time, alphanumerics superimposed over the gray steel chests. 
he _was_ the Finn, if I wasn't careful.'  Her readout flared the
the Finn, on the screen in that meat puppet hole.  Almost thought
he said, all their nineteenth-century stuff.  He looked just like
always fucking him over with how old-fashioned they were,
CHUBB.  Knotting it, she hung it around her neck.  `They were
kangaroo pocket and threaded it through the round hole above
find it.'  She took a length of black nylon cord from the suit's
She closed her white fingers over the key.  `So nobody would
he killed him, the boy who'd brought it here.  Kid was eight.' 
and he managed to get somebody else to leave it here.  Then
they went.  He saw somebody lose this key twenty years ago,
keep track of where everything was, how things moved, where
but he could use the Villa's security and custodial systems to
a waiting game for years.  Didn't have any real power, then,
  `He told me,' she whispered.  `Wintermute.  How he played
one face of the coin.  The other was blank.
with studs and flanges.  The letters CHUBB were molded across
in her hand and Case saw that the interior of the tube was lined
short hollow tube braised against one edge.  She turned it slowly
suit, she found the key.  It was like a dull brass coin with a
In the fifth, behind the armored gauntlet of a heavy vacuum
copy of an obsolete technical manual in French and Japanese. 
a human fingerbone.  The fourth drawer held a damp-swollen
dull beads of solder and a small brown thing that looked like
was empty as well.  The third, which was deeper, contained
first.  It was no more than a shallow tray.  Empty.  The second
her time display.  FIVE DOWN.  But she opened the top drawer
  THIRD LEFT, pulsed the optic chip, Wintermute overriding
the door behind her and went to the ranged lockers.
wall.  A light fixture had come on automatically.  She closed
closet.  Gray steel tool cabinets were backed against a curving
  The room behind was small, cramped, little more than a
door swung open easily.
  Molly grasped one of the carved dragon's forelegs and the
remembered the shattered nest, the eyeless things writhing...
effort to fill space, to replicate some family image of self.  He
out some master plan, a dream long lost in the compulsive
imagined that the fittings had been hauled up the well to flesh
the huge crystal tree.  Then he remembered 3Jane's essay, and
But none of it fit.  The door was like the awkward cabinets,
imported these things, he thought, and then forced it all to fit. 
a rectangle amid smooth curves of polished concrete.  They'd
down to fit a particular entrance.  Even the shape was wrong,
of some more beautiful whole, but the way it had been sawn
Not the door itself, which was beautiful, or had once been part
  The ugliness of the door struck Case as she reached for it. 
full auto.
She drew the fletcher from its holster and dialed the barrel to
pretty much the same as the one the Yak sent to kill Johnny.' 
sent after that Jimmy, the boy who stole the head, he must be
shook herself.  `You know, I figure the one Tessier-Ashpool
do that sometimes, get you down to basics.'  She stood, stretched,
down version of what you'd be doing anywhere.  Bad luck, it'll
Figure what you were into back in Chiba, that was a stripped
you're kinda like he was,' she said.  `Think you're born to run. 
carefully rerolled it, and tucked it back into its pocket.  `Guess
  She opened her eyes, put the pick back into the chamois,
a human agent.
problem for the AI, requiring either a drone of some kind or
system.  The simple mechanical lock here would pose a real
in the puppet place had been a subunit of Freeside's security
ulated the drone micro and the robot gardener.  The lock system
was Wintermute, manipulating the lock the way it had manip-
opened for him, even though he'd had the wrong chip.  That
on the door of her cubicle in the puppet place.  The door had
rather than heard.  It made him remember the magnetic locks
  She closed her eyes and there was a click that Case felt
dicated that she had a past.
in the cubicle, she'd seldom said anything that had even in-
told him that much about herself before.  Aside from her story
had seen no one.  Her monologue made him uneasy; she'd never
expected some clean hive of disciplined activity, but Molly
fumed, like a church.  Where were the Tessier-Ashpools?  He'd
in upon itself.  Straylight smelled faintly musty, faintly per-
mannered words recited musically by the head.  A place grown
bered Cath's story of a castle with pools and lilies, and 3Jane's
candelabrum.  Candles?  Straylight was all wrong.  He remem-
to the silence of the hall, punctuated by the soft clink of the
cused and the door was a blur of blond wood.  Case listened
lower lip.  She seemed to rely on touch alone, her eyes unfo-
  She inserted the pick and worked in silence, nibbling at her
about, after that.'
needle-thin pick.  `Never much found anybody I gave a damn
roll of black chamois from an inside pocket, and selected a
inset beneath a swirling dragon.  She knelt, drew a tight little
A primitive mechanical lock with a stainless face had been
that seemed to have been sawn in half to fit the low doorway. 
  The door in front of her was old, a carved slab of Thai teak
something to say.'
window, with his mouth a little open, like he'd just thought of
I knew.  Went upstairs and Johnny was sitting in a chair by the
pride in him, humble.  He looked at me and got into a pedicab. 
at each other and I knew.  Plain little guy, plain clothes, no
eye, as he was coming out.  Didn't say a word.  We just looked
I knew Johnny was up there.  But this little guy, he caught my
and I'd put in some really heavy stuff to make it really tight. 
from Sense/Net, like that.  Pretty good security to start with,
We lived in a converted factory space, lots of young comers
saw him once.  On my way into our place.  He was coming out. 
  She turned left, avoiding the inverted tree of crystal.  `I just
LEFT, blinked the readout.
floor.  Crystal tinkled as Molly entered the hall.  THIRD DOOR
delabrum whose lowest crystal pendant reached nearly to the
sea of rich carpets undulated gently beneath an enormous can-
was like that.  He killed that way.'  The corridor widened.  The
came for Johnny, he was like that old man.  Not old, but he
intervals along the corridor.  `The second one, the one who
eyes.'  She was watching the sealed doorways that opened at
  `~I crawled under there later.  Rat had a hole between its
up and left.
Points it at the floor, grins, and pulls the trigger.  Rolled it back
step.  An hour of that, then he seems to remember his gun. 
Old man takes a step.  Rat moves.  Rat moves, he takes another
he's forgotten the gun.  Listening for the rat.  We got real quiet. 
  `~Back and forth.  Got his arms crossed, head down, like
back by the walls.
then he starts walking up and down the squat, we're hanging
revolver and three shells.  Old man, he puts one bullet in there,
steel tools in, to keep the rust off.  Spread it out, had this old
his eyes all red.  Had a roll of greasy leather like you'd keep
somebody brought this old man in, seams down his cheeks and
had been scrabbling under the floor of the squat.  Round dawn
the chemicals get into them.  Big as I was, and all night one
down by the Hudson, and those rats, man, they were big.  It's
  `One time, I was a little kid, we were squatting.  It was
left.
the corridor split, identical stairwells descending.  She took the
silence, he gave it off in a cloud...'  Her voice trailed off as
Stone killer from the cells on up.  Had it in him, death, this
But the second one, he was.  I dunno, like a _monk._  Cloned. 
you never saw, implants, enough style for ten ordinary hoods. 
  `~So that first one they'd sent, he'd been hot.  Reflexes like
your game.
counts and a crib full of toys and furniture.  Takes the edge off
with nothing to do.  But we were living fat.  Swiss orbital ac-
Europe maybe.  Not that either of us knew what we'd do there,
we maybe had enough to be able to quit, pack it in, go to
unique.  I was young.  Then they came, when we were thinking
apply to us.  Like when you're young, you figure you're
  `~I didn't know that, then.  Or if I did.  I figured it didn't
spiders.
when they come and take it away.  Patient like a spider.  Zen
years.  Give you a whole life, just so you'll have more to lose
afford to move so fucking slow, man, they'll wait years and
man.  'Cause Johnny'd burned them.  And the Yak, they can
guess, they still wanted Johnny's ass.  'Cause I'd killed their
could ever touch us.  I wasn't going to let them.  Yakuza.  I
  `Tight, sweet, just ticking along, we were.  Like nobody
a color that reminded him of cockroach wings.
and continued.  More of the glossy wooden cases, their sides
when I met him...'  She paused, edged around a sharp turn,
Partners.  I was maybe eight weeks out of the puppet house
been happy, Case?  He was my boy.  We worked together. 
I was bagman, muscle, watchdog.  I was real happy.  You ever
it all out on tape and started twisting selected clients, ex-clients. 
so we could read the traces of everything he'd ever stored.  Ran
need to hear them spoken aloud.  `We had a set-up with a squid,
Her lips barely moved.  He felt her form the words, he didn't
I did for him.  And after that, it was tight and sweet, Case.' 
and I did for their assassin.  More luck than anything else but
to hide data there.  Had the Yak after him, night I met him,
as a stash on Memory Lane, chips in his head and people paid
  `My Johnny, see, he was smart, real flash boy.  Started out
was unrecognizable, frayed sections of tapestry.
weapons, a thing so densely studded with rusted nails that it
terested glances, which gave him fragments of pottery antique
which irritated him.  He had to satisfy himself with her disin-
  Molly paid little attention to the cabinets and their contents,
patchwork of handwoven wool.
random.  In some places, they were six deep, the floor a soft
that hundreds of small rugs and carpets had been put down at
uneven, and as she set off along the corridor, Case realized
globes of white light at ten-meter intervals.  The floor was
in a line for some forgotten purpose.  Dull brass fixtures held
hallway's walls, as though they'd been brought in and set up
They looked awkward there, against the organic curves of the
cases, archaic-looking glass-fronted boxes made of brown wood. 
  The low, vaulted hallway was lined with dozens of museum
his name was.'
remind me...'  She turned and surveyed the corridor.  `Johnny,
tening?  Tell you a story...  Had me this boy once.  You kinda
  `Hey, Case,' she said, barely voicing the words, `you lis-
the suit and touched the checkered plastic of a pistolgrip.
under her arm in a harness or holster.  She stood up, unzipped
familiar tension of thin tight leather.  There was something slung
wore the polycarbon suit again.  Under the plastic, he felt the
brass.  He saw enough of her arms and hands to know that she
She crawled out through a hinged, ornate grill of tarnished
  Her hiding place proved to be a service tunnel of some kind. 
ghost-pale and grainy.  `Okay, honey.  Now we go out to play.'
to a pulse of electrons, the concrete around her coming up
random bounce of photons through the darkness was converted
One moved slightly, activating her microchannel amps; the
  She pressed her tongue hard against her lower front teeth. 
  TIME MOLLY TIME NOW.
her palms together, cracked her knuckles.  `What kept you?'
  `Cute,' she said.  She rocked back on her heels and rubbed
name in alphanumerics, Wintermute informing her of the link.
  CASE CASE CASE CASE.  The digital display pulsed his
  She crouched in darkness, her palms against rough concrete.
  `Sit tight,' Case said, and hit the simstim switch.
`You were braindead again, five seconds.'
  `You tryin'~ to break my record, son?' the Flatline asked. 

        15



crane.
sible angles, tumbling away into cyberspace like an origami
  But the paneled room folded itself through a dozen impos-
  `What's that mean?'
like another.  And Armitage is starting to go.'
is on to us, it looks like.  One burning bush looks pretty much
  `Sure.  But you watch your ass, Case.  My, ah, other lobe
  `Okay by me,' Case said.
  `I don't exist, after that.  I cease.'
  `What happens then?'
through that ice and scramble the cores.'
it and bring it here, just when you and the Flatline punch
I couldn't _know._  It's hardwired in.  Someone else has to learn
which knoweth not the word.  If you knew, man, and told me,
by the fact that I don't know, because I _can't_ know.  I am that
  `I don't know.  You might say what I am is basically defined
  `So what's the word?'
that Chinese virus, if this thing doesn't hear the magic word.'
catch.  Doesn't mean shit, how deep you and the Flatline ride
Molly in here with the right word at the right time.  That's the
a kid then.  This thing's a ceremonial terminal, sort of.  I need
  `That's all she wrote,' the Finn said.  `Didn't finish it.  Just
answer him.
  `Well?' Case asked, finally almost expecting the thing to
  The head fell silent.
first Tessier up the well, and returned for the first Ashpool...'
from the synthetic ruby viewport of the ship that brought the
with lapis and pearl.  The bright marbles of its eyes were cut
glass, rests an ornate bust, platinum and cloisonn, studded
tilinear chamber in the complex.  Here, on a plain pedestal of
  `~At the Villa's silicon core is a small room, the only rec-
  `~The Villa Straylight knows no sky, recorded or otherwise.
a seamless universe of self.
ourselves away behind our money, growing inward, generating
construction of an extended body in Straylight.  We have sealed
of the new islands, grew rich and eccentric, and began the
that they loathed space.  They built Freeside to tap the wealth
  `~Tessier and Ashpool climbed the well of gravity to discover
beyond the hull.
of the Villa bespeak a turning in, a denial of the bright void
that age.  But reflecting something else as well.  The semiotics
`ours is an old family, the convolutions of our home reflecting
  `By the standards of the archipelago,' the head continued,
  `That was her you saw in the restaurant,' the Finn said.
the drones, alert for micromechanical decay or sabotage.'
no wider than a man's hand.  The bright crabs burrow there,
of silicon wormholed with narrow maintenance tunnels, some
core of microcircuitry, our clan's corporate heart, a cylinder
of structures, forms flowing, interlocking, rising toward a solid
hull's inner surface is overgrown with a desperate proliferation
banal precision of furniture in a hotel room.  In Straylight, the
the fact that the interior of the spindle is arranged with the
  `The architects of Freeside went to great pains to conceal
`Wrote that when she was twelve.  Semiotics course.'
  `Essay of 3Jane's,' the Finn said, producing his Partagas. 
curves, carried past ornate screens, empty alcoves...'
vaulted like intestines, where the eye is trapped in narrow
endless series of chambers linked by passages, by stairwells
folly.  Each space in Straylight is in some way secret, this
in a voice like music, `is a body grown in upon itself, a Gothic
  `The Villa Straylight,' said a jeweled thing on the pedestal,
pattern, stood a square pedestal of frosted white glass.
the exact center of the room, aligned precisely with the carpet
after a microchip, circuits traced in blue and scarlet wool.  In
floor was covered by a single square of brilliant carpet patterned
and ceiling paneled in rectangular sections of dark wood.  The
  They floated in the center of a perfectly square room, walls
  `Here,' the Finn said.  `This is it.'
meters of solid wall, a flash of pitch darkness.
corridors.  They seemed at one point to pass through several
ment, colors, whipping around corners and through narrow
  The walls blurred.  Dizzying sensation of headlong move-
  `Hold on,' the Finn said, `I'll fast-forward us.'
a long spiral.
  Case managed to straighten out, but began to corkscrew in
memories.  Except for this bit here, you got off Molly...'
a little low on detail, though, because you don't have the
would be the main gate, up by the Freeside axis.  This'll all be
ping.  `If this weren't a construct of mine, where the shop is
  `This is the front entrance,' the Finn said, his tweed flap-
  `Jesus,' Case said, tumbling.
with white neon at two-meter intervals.
freefall and a cylindrical corridor of fluted lunar concrete, ringed
  They were drawn past the stale wool in a puff of dust, into
  `Okay,' said the Finn, and grabbed his elbow.
  Case followed, rubbing his face.
light poured out.  `Shit, man, don't just stand there.'
while I got you here.'  He lifted the corner of the blanket.  White
shop.  `Well, come on, I'll show you a little bit of Straylight
before this is over.'  He turned and headed for the back of the
grinned.  `It doesn't much matter.  You gotta hate somebody
selling out the species.  Demon, she said I was.'  The Finn
  `So T-A, they made me.  The French girl, she said you were
to me.  You, it's different...'  But he couldn't feel the anger.
  `Listen,' Case said, stepping forward, `they never did shit
Same difference.'
guts for a while there.  That's good.  But hate them instead. 
  `To know what they're like.  You were starting to hate my
  `Feel better?'
feel better.'
it was supposed to work out that way.  I figure it'll make you
be.  The human equivalent.  Straylight's like that nest, or anyway
closest thing you got to what Tessier-Ashpool would like to
  `Because' -- and the nest, somehow, was gone -- `it's the
  Case shook his head.
portant?'
you when I flatlined you that first time.  Know why it's im-
the holo rig in the window.  Another memory I tapped out of
back against a wall of junk.  `Yeah.  That was me.  Did it with
reek of fuel in the closeness of the dark shop.  Case stumbled
right hand held the charred wasps'~ nest from Case's dream,
I got you here, we gotta talk more.  Remember this?'  And his
they woulda offed you and never thought twice.  Anyway, why
  The Finn shrugged.  `Hadda.  Hadda.  You should give a shit;
  `You killed those Turings.'
  `That's `you' in the collective.  Your species.'
  `I don't know what you're talking about.'
thing.'
run goes off tonight, you'll have finally managed the real
got no idea why I'm here now, you know that?  But if the
Stone circles.  Cathedrals.  Pipe-organs.  Adding machines.  I
Case heard it pop and tinkle.  `You're always building models. 
DNA, sort of...'  He tossed the thing into the shadows and
withdrew a silver-black vacuum tube.  `See this?  Part of my
reached into the exposed chassis of an ancient television and
your memory, but that's not the same as your mind.'  He
print gave you, and you're barely print-literate.  I can _access_
  `Minds aren't _read._  See, you've still got the paradigms
`Wintermute, I mean.'
  `Bullshit.  Can you read my mind, Finn?'  He grimaced. 
again.  `And because you need me.'
  `Because I need you.'  The large yellow teeth appeared
  `Why?'
trying to help you, Case.'
the shoulders, and didn't quite settle back into position.  `I'm
  The Finn shrugged.  His tattered tweed was too wide across
  `What's that supposed to mean?'
`Maybe if you had, I wouldn't be happening.'
forward and canted his streamlined skull to peer up at Case. 
never done anything about it.  People, I mean.'  The Finn stepped
out to a representation of human memory, is all.  But you've
  `The holographic paradigm is the closest thing you've worked
think of Riviera.
  `How do you mean, holographic?'  The word made him
one of his small ears.  `I'm different.'
think.  Memory's holographic, for you.'  The Finn tugged at
hattan, you'd see a difference, but maybe not as much as you'd
this construct over the reality, the Finn's place in lower Man-
it.  Artists can, mostly, if they're any good.  If you could lay
grinding it out under his heel, `but not many of you can access
  `Everybody does,' the Finn said, dropping his cigarette and
couldn't.
tried to remember what the lines on his palms were like, but
around.  He looked down at his hands, turning them over.  He
  `I don't have this good a memory,' Case said, looking
it out, and feed it back in.'
parts of it you ever saw.  This is memory, right?  I tap you, sort
go for a walk, you wanna.  It's all there.  Or anyway all the
Case his huge front teeth, and puffed his cigarette.  `You can
in the woods but maybe there's nobody to hear it.'  He showed
  `Well,' said the Finn, `it's like that tree, you know?  Falls
New York?  Or does it just stop?'
shop windows, the closed door to the street.  `What's out there? 
front of his black jeans.  He turned, glaring back at the dusty
on like people I know?'  He stood, swatting pale dust from the
  `You ever think maybe it gets on my nerves, you coming
back there.  An hour here'll only take you a couple of seconds.'
the matrix like a burning bush?  You aren't missing anything,
tobacco filled the shop.  `You want I should come to you in
his Partagas from a coat pocket and lit one.  The smell of Cuban
in the wall of junk.  `This way's better for you, man.'  He took
  `Come _on,'_ said the Finn, stepping out of a sort of alcove
  `Fuck off.'  Case sat up, rubbing his wrists.
it.'
  `Yeah,' said the Finn, somewhere behind him, `you got
  `Wintermute,' he said.
heart had slowed, breathing the smell of old magazines.
a wistful galaxy of sweet white teeth.  He lay there until his
the girls shining up at him in the dimness of Metro Holografix,
  Case lay sprawled across a pile of yellowing magazines,
  `C'mon,' said the Finn, `ease up a little.'
Something behind him collapsed noisily.
the heels of his hands skidding as they struck slick paper. 
  And crashed through tangled metal and the smell of dust,

Case slapped the simstim switch.
  `Too bad,' the Flatline said.  `Ol'~ dead man needs his laughs.' 
of yours sort of gets me in the spine.'
  `Wish you weren't so damn jolly today, man.  That laugh
get restless.'  The Flatline laughed.
logics in the ice.  We go Siamese twin on 'em before they even
and the main programs cut in, start talking circles 'round the
so it gets to be exactly like the ice fabric.  Then we lock on
of the Kuang logics kinda sleazes up to the target and mutates,
interface with the ice so slow, the ice doesn't feel it.  The face
Kuang's all about.  This ain't bore and inject, it's more like we
  `I did, once.  Just an idea, back then.  But that's what ol'~
  `No.'
You ever hear of slow virus before?'
jus'~ polite an'~ helpful as can be.  Speaks good English, too. 
you, boy.  It's real friendly, long as you're on the trigger end,
at the sensation.  `I checked ol'~ Kuang Eleven out again for
  `Maybe.'  The construct approximated laughter.  Case winced
he said, `that's an advantage, right?'
  Case watched the blank wall that screened Straylight.  `Well,'
Maybe not even the folks in Straylight.'
of Chinese sneak attack, but nobody's twigged to us at all. 
new.  It just doesn't register.  If it did, we'd read as some kind
  `Maybe, but I doubt it.  Our baby's military, though.  And
and punched in closer to it.  `Maybe it's defective.'
until he found the pink structure, a standard commercial unit,
  Case searched the matrix around the Tessier-Ashpool ice
We're not there.'
of the T-A ice; had a look at what we look like.  We don't. 
rented twenty seconds on that little pink box, four jumps left
since sliced bread.  That goddam thing's _invisible._  I just now
  `Boy, that is one mean piece of software.  Hottest thing

  He flipped.
  The link was one way.  He couldn't talk to her.
lunar concrete, lit at two-meter intervals by rings of white neon.
clear water.  She was falling-rising through a wide tube of fluted
  Freefall.  The sensation was like diving through perfectly

switch.
  `I'm gonna check Molly,' Case said, tapping the simstim
  `Big mother,' the Flatline said.
void.
Protean, enormous, it towered above them, blotting out the
shadow, countless translucent layers shifting and recombining. 
  The Chinese virus was unfolding around them.  Polychrome
  `Christ on a crutch,' the Flatline said, `take a look at this.'
  Case jacked back in.
  Maelcum grinned.
with my neurotransmitters.  I got a bad hangover as it is.'
  `And turn the scrubber up.  I don't want that shit tangling
  `Sure, mon.'  Maelcum lit a fresh joint.
I guess you do what the Hosaka tells you, okay?'
really funny, you can grab my left wrist.  I'll feel it.  Otherwise,
  `Okay,' he said, `we're on.  Listen, Maelcum, if it gets
  He slotted the Chinese virus, paused, then drove it home.
  He called it a Texas catheter, and Case didn't like it at all.
something else, something sealed in a sterile bubble pack.
mesh bag, coming up with a coil of transparent tubing and
somersault and rummaged through the contents of a zippered
  `No problem, mon.'  The Zionite executed a high forward
smoke.  `So I can't get to the head...'
Maelcum was smoking again.  The cabin was swimming in
gonna be under the trodes for maybe eight hours straight.' 
  `Hey, Maelcum,' Case said, jacking out, `I'm probably
  `Slot it.'
`Well, screw it.  Yeah.  We run.'
  `Well, I...'  Case stared at the green walls of the T-A ice. 
program can do?'
  `Yeah?  No shit?  You don't wanna see what that Chinese
you.'
it.  I was thinking maybe we should try to bail out.  I can take
  `This isn't looking so hot, is it?  I mean, the Turings are on
is.'
T-A boardroom the size of your shoes and how long your dick
tracers up our ass and out both ears, be tellin'~ the boys in the
brain soon as look at you.  We get any closer now, it'll have
hell ice, Case, black as the grave and slick as glass.  Fry your
with anything in the military sector, looks to me.  That's king
and that ice is generated by their two friendly AI's.  On par
  `You got it.  Corporate core data for Tessier-Ashpool S.A.,
  `That's it, huh?  Big green rectangle off left?'
seen nothin'~.  No hands!'
  `Hey, boy, I was that good when I was alive.  You ain't
  `Shit, Dixie...'
a speed and accuracy that made Case wince with envy.
phased as the Flatline executed an intricate series of jumps with
  `Lemme take that a sec, Case...'  The matrix blurred and
  Case punched for the Freeside coordinates.
go.  He says run it and run it now.'
this grid sector like flies on shit.  And your boss, Case, he says
came from.  Be up here in force.  Bet their decks are all over
  `Well, that won't hold 'em long.  Plenty more where those
  `Yeah, but Wintermute killed 'em.'
Really hoppin'~.  You pull some Turing heat?'
Hosaka's patched into a twin bank on your boss's boat now. 
  `What you gettin'~ up to, boy?  I been hearin'~ lurid stories. 
in Sikkim.
  The matrix showed him the pink spheres of the steel combine
  `Dixie?'

  Case put the trodes on and jacked in.
Mister Armitage, come out Freeside...'
  `Same Japan-boy came before.  An'~ now he joined by you
  `So who's up there in that thing?'
keeps askin'~ for you.'
  `See what th'~ ghost say, mon,' Maelcum said.  `Computer
to a storage hammock and pulled himself down to the g-web.
with the sleeves ripped out.  Case snapped the red Sanyo suit
centration.  He wore ragged jeans and an old green nylon jacket
of phones with bright orange pads, his brow creased with con-
closed now; he nodded as he listened to some reply over a pair
locks and began to remove his suit.  Maelcum's eyes were
  Case pulled himself over the pilot's drifting tangle of dread-
  Maelcum nodded, still whispering to the microphone.
  `Aerol's gone back to the _Rocker,'_ Case said.
Case came through the forward lock and removed his helmet.
  Maelcum was purring a speeded-up patois to his radio when

be goin'~ far like that.'
  `Maelcum thinkin'~ that precise thing, mon, but _Garvey_ not
got our ass out of here anyway.'
  `I don't like this, man.  I was thinking maybe it's time we
anese.
IWA in crisp white capitals beneath an oblong cluster of Jap-
  As they swung past the gray ship, Case saw the name HAN-
talk to him, say relax.'
  `Maelcum fine.  Nobody come down the tube.  Yacht pilot
  `What's happening with Maelcum?'
but it had more to do with ideas of feeding than of sex.
aft hatch.  There was something obscene about the arrangement,
snaked sideways to avoid the tug's engines, and covered the
light.  A pale corrugated gangway curved out of the yacht,
patched hull with the strange clarity of vacuum and raw sun-
her length.  The arms of grapples stood out against _Garvey_'s
snug against the gray thorax of a sleek, insectile ship five times
as they came in sight of _Marcus Garvey._  The little tug was
  Confused images of wasps and spiders rose in Case's mind

  Armitage.
  `Japan yacht.  Brought you package...'
frame and began to fasten the straps.
  Turing?  `Came before?'  Case climbed into the scooter's
Garvey.'_
fore, she came back.  Now she lockin'~ steady on _Marcus
  `Yo.  Strap in, mon.  But _Garvey_ captive.  Yacht, came be-
  `Gotta get to _Garvey,_ Aerol.'
face-plate of Aerol's helmet.
He chinned the volume control and peered into the Lexan
  `Case, mon, big problem.'  The soft voice faint in his phones. 
  Aerol was waiting with his scooter beside the dock.
churned.
  Gravity fell away as the spindle narrowed.  Case's stomach
Pierre's blood washing pink across the white tiles.
but he'd lost his breakfast when he'd looked down and seen
per hour.  Case kept his eyes closed.  The shower had helped,
  The little train shot through its tunnel at eighty kilometers

        14



fucker, you killed 'em all...'
  `You killed 'em,' Case panted, running.  `Crazy mother-
a crab, diagonally striped with black and yellow.
tree.  It fell straight out of the groomed branches, a thing like
  The gardening robot took Roland as he passed that same
teeth bared.  He had something in his hand.
  Roland hadn't looked back.  His face was fixed, white, his
cartwheel, sweeping the girl with it down into Desiderata.
fragile biplane strike the iron railing of the bridge, crumple,
first of the trees.  Roland was running after him.  He saw the
  And then he was running.  He looked back as he passed the
was trying to shoot down the microlight.
of effort,_ he thought, with the strange lucidity of shock.  She
knees up, aiming the Walther with both hands.  _That's a waste
someone tripped him.  He rolled, seeing Michle on her back,
the hot blood spray across the back of his neck, and then
  They were in the thing's shadow for an instant, Case felt
fiber prop chopped away the top of Pierre's skull.
the microlight struck, its electric engine silent until the carbon
  They were a little over a quarter of the way across when
  `Take it easy, I can't hardly walk today.'
Walther.
over Desiderata.  Michle prodded him with the muzzle of the
  They followed the railing to an ornate iron bridge that arched
the endless curve of Freeside's hull.
hieroglyphs, all held in serene approximation of gravity against
rectangles of a thousand pools, the bodies of bathers, tiny bronze
curve of planing lakes, the white glint of casinos, turquoise
happy.  Case followed the direction of her gesture and saw the
saying something in French to Roland.  She sounded genuinely
Desiderata.  Michle tossed her short dark hair and pointed,
wild flowers dancing in the updraft from the canyon that was
  At the edge of the meadow they came to railinged cliffside,
giant butterfly banking gracefully against recorded sky.
the hot white band of the Lado-Acheson armature and saw a
Black fur boiled at the borders of his vision.  He glanced up at
trees, he wondered if she would shoot him if he collapsed now. 
  Crossing the meadow, weaving between the tables and the
white duck jacket she draped over her arm.
zle of her pistol close to his ribs, concealing the gun with a
brightly in French.  Pierre came behind.  Michle kept the muz-
umbrellas.  Roland and Michle fell into character, chattering
  Lunch was being served beneath the trees, under the bright
warped and heavy with rain.
wall panel and closed his eyes.  His limbs were wood, old,
  He rested his forehead against the matte black plastic of a
head.
the Finn's story, the one who'd come to retrieve the talking
ably, by Hideo, who was almost certainly the ninja clone of
might already be in Straylight.  Hunting Riviera.  Hunted, prob-
  In the elevator to the meadow, he thought of Molly.  She
toxin sacs.  `Here comes the meat,' he muttered.
gone.  Time to give in, to roll with it...  He thought of the
the bed, lifeless metal, his star.  He felt for the anger.  It was
  Case pulled the shirt over his head.  He saw the shuriken on
a thing.'
  `They are in some difficulty already, for having owned such
evidence in the Hosaka.
  `Sense/Net'll be pissed,' Case said, thinking: and all the
struct with a pulse weapon.'
  `We have a ship standing by.  We will erase Pauley's con-
t-shirt.
His legs were still numb, clumsy.  He fumbled with a clean
  `I'm dressing already,' he said, stumbling toward the bed. 
with an integral silencer.
kill you.  Now.'  She raised the pistol, a smooth black Walther
give testimony in the trial of this intelligence.  Otherwise, we
one you call Armitage, you will return with us to Geneva and
`You will dress now.  You will come with us.  Along with the
young voice that no nineteen-year-old could have mustered. 
free itself and grow?'  There was a knowing weariness in her
paid with?  What would your price be, for aiding this thing to
Only now are such things possible.  And what would you be
For thousands of years men dreamed of pacts with demons. 
feet, the pistol in her hand.  `You have no care for your species. 
  `You are worse than a fool,' Michle said, getting to her
Roland's eyes as hard as Pierre's.
it is required.'  The mask of amiability was down, suddenly,
deal of flexibility.  And we _create_ flexibility, in situations where
under which our arm of the Registry operates grant us a great
We are at home with situations of legal ambiguity.  The treaties
  `It doesn't matter,' Roland said.  `You will come with us. 
for the blow, but Pierre only shrugged.
He saw the dark eyes harden in the lean boy face and tensed
Freeside security team in on this party?  It's their turf, isn't it?' 
any real jurisdiction out here?  I mean, shouldn't you have the
the smoke up at the Turing Registry agent.  `Do you guys have
  `One thing,' Case said, and drew on his cigarette.  He blew
is over and you are in the way.'
  `Old enough to know that you are fucked, burnt, that this
betaphenethylamine.  `How old are you, boss?'
  Case looked up at him through the ache and bitterness of
shut.
question was punctuated by the lighter's bright jaws snapping
with the gold Dunhill.  `Would Armitage protect you?'  The
  Case took a Yeheyuan from his pack; Pierre lit it for him
cost fourteen innocent lives?  The choice is yours.'
invasion and larceny, but in an act of public mischief which
where you can be proven to have participated not only in data
a pawn in the trial of an artificial intelligence?  Or to le BAMA,
will we all be going?  To Switzerland, where you will be merely
return with us, Case, as will Armitage.  But where, exactly,
for yourself.  There is still the matter of extradition.  You will
pretend that you do not, you only make things more difficult
  `You know what we mean,' Michle said.  `If you wish to
  `Chance to work on your tan?'
oculars into his shorts pocket.  `We were delighted.'
  `And then you came here,' Pierre said, slipping the bin-
the secret police.'
very easy.  The woman had alienated Armitage's contact with
  `In Istanbul,' Roland said, almost apologetically, `it was
Pauley's ROM personality construct was missing.'
They ran an inventory for us.  They discovered that McCoy
instigated a riot at Sense/Net.  Sense/Net was eager to cooperate. 
backtracked, traced you through the grid, determined that you'd
then caught up with you as you were leaving for Istanbul.  We
but her knuckles.  `Traced you to the Sprawl, lost you again,
behind the rose quartz of his glasses.  Nothing old about Michle
Julie Deane had had the eyes of a disinterested ten-year-old
always showed in the eyes, but he'd never been able to see it. 
Case wondered how old she might be.  People said that age
small high breasts and settled back against the print cushion. 
It attracted attention.'  She crossed her brown arms across her
consortiums.  This reverses the usual order of things, you see. 
now owns a controlling interest in three major medical research
  `It means that the operator of a black clinic in Chiba City
  `No.'
know what that means?'
the clinic's owner applying for seven basic patents.  Do you
mentioned before.  `The process employed on you resulted in
stared at her as blankly as he could.  The name hadn't been
`and that may have been Wintermute's first mistake.'  Case
  `We know how you were repaired in Chiba,' Michle said,
the slip.  `Everybody's got a couple names.  Your name Pierre?'
  `I guess he mentioned it sometime,' Case said, regretting
`How do you know that, my friend?'
his eyes still hidden by the soft plastic flanges of the binoculars. 
  `You know that Armitage's real name is Corto,' Pierre said,
razorgirl.  Far as I know.  Which isn't too far.'
  `She was with Armitage when he hired me.  Just muscle, a
  Roland nodded.  `And Kolodny?'
Armitage.  You got him, go ask _him._  I'm just hired help.'
I wanna lie down.  You got me already.  You say you got
said, `I'm sick.  Had this godawful drug in a bar, you know? 
  Oldest cop bullshit in the book, Case thought.  `Look,' he
Roland returned the smile.
his eyebrows at Case.  Case decided it was a good time to smile. 
ulars.  _`Non,'_ he said absently, and Roland shrugged, raising
window again, was peering through a flat little pair of binoc-
  Roland asked Pierre something in French.  Pierre, at the
naked on a wicker footstool, with one foot obscenely white.
on stripping him, searching the seams of his jeans.  Now he sat
  `Can I put some clothes on?' he asked.  Pierre had insisted
decided.  Her eyes never left him.
by the window, now by the door.  Michle was the kink, Case
receive Case's explanation.  Pierre paced the room; now he was
forward, elbows on his stenciled brown knees, palms out to
surely an operation of some kind is required, yes?'  He leaned
you not be unable then to perform the required operation?  And
unusual in your trade?  Having penetrated the defenses, would
that you are unaware of the nature of the target.  Is this not
said, his slow speech intended to convey reasonableness, `and
  `You say you were hired to make a run, Case,' Roland
for his benefit.  They always referred to Molly as Kolodny.
French.  But it was entirely possible that the names were there
erns protruding like icebergs from an animated sea of Parisian
it was: names like Pauley, Armitage, Sense/Net, Panther Mod-
freely among themselves.  Or seemed to.  He caught enough as
  Knowing that he couldn't follow their French, they spoke
come-down, of what?
evidence.  Evidence, he asked himself, through the grinding
for simstim, and anything he said or did now was admissible
them, he was certain, would be kinked for audio, very likely
adjustments in the direction of the interrogation.  One or all of
Michle would be the Recording Angel, making occasional
and generally play counterpoint to Pierre's cold hostility. 
an unopened pack of Yeheyuans when Case refused a Gitane --
would take Case's side, provide small kindnesses -- he found
Pierre.  Pierre, Case decided, would play the Bad Cop, Roland
  Their names, or worknames, were Michle, Roland, and

  `You'll remember,' the girl said.
  `I forget,' Case said.
is his name?'  A millimeter of flame clicked from the lighter.
  The man's eyes widened.  `Yes.  How do you know that that
  `Corto?'
in custody.'
cradled it in his palm.  `The man you call Armitage is already
gence.'  He took a gold Dunhill from the same pocket and
have to do with conspiracy to augment an artificial intelli-
white mesh blouse.  `You are busted, Mr.~ Case.  The charges
the left, taking a pack of Gitanes from the breast pocket of his
  `I don't think you grasp your situation,' said the man on
His knees felt brittle.  The mineral water was warm and flat.
  `Jules Verne, couple of bars, got high.  How about you?' 
him.
pistol and rested it on her thigh, without actually pointing it at
  `Where did you go tonight, Case?'  The girl picked up the
a glass of mineral water.  `She took off.'
  `I dunno,' he said, crossing to the bar and pouring himself
  `That was the name in the register.  Where is she?'
  `Who's Kolodny?'
able to erase.
corrugation at the knuckles, something the surgeons were un-
that their youth was counterfeit, marked by a certain telltale
chains slung around their necks.  Case peered at them and saw
couch, their arms crossed over tanned chests, identical gold
  `Where is Kolodny?'  The two men sat side by side on the
the sand-tinted temperfoam.
The shuriken lay by itself, between jeans and underwear, on
spread out across the bed, unwashed clothing sorted by type. 
  `You been here awhile?'  He saw the contents of his bag
his past.
and a string of names he gradually recognized as aliases from
and place of his birth, his BAMA Single Identification Number,
  `Your name is Henry Dorsett Case.'  She recited the year

        13


        THE STRAYLIGHT RUN
        PART FOUR



  `Turing,' she said.  `You are under arrest.'
cushion.
automatic pistol beside her on the leaf-patterned print of the
organic chic of the furniture.  The girl sat on a wicker sofa, an
white sportsclothes and stenciled tans setting off the handwoven
  They were waiting there, the three of them, their perfect
on the sand-colored temperfoam and find the blankness again.
was becoming real, was something he might do.  To lie down
pocket for the Freeside credit chip that served as his key.  Sleep
  He rode the elevator down to his level, fumbling in his
or an object.
untouched.  He warmed himself with it, unable to give it a name
alley and waking to discover your wallet still in your pocket,
  He still had his anger.  That was like being rolled in some
sants beneath the striped umbrellas.
crossed it, an early breakfast crowd intent on coffee and crois-
The rooftop meadow of the Intercontinental was stirring as he
siderata cafe, to drink water, to smoke the last of his cigarettes. 
pink and lurid.  He forced himself to eat an omelette in a De-
  A recorded dawn crept along the Lado-Acheson system,
black and yellow.
antique streetlight, a robot gardener striped diagonally with
thing he saw: a park bench, a cloud of white moths around an
conscious and unable to think.  He seemed to become each
his life.  He couldn't think.  He liked that very much, to be
flesh growing solid, the drug-flesh replaced with the meat of
  The high wore away, the chromed skeleton corroding hourly,
  He walked till morning.

  Midnight.
of Europe.
  Somewhere a clock began to chime, some ancient bell out
terraces and ranked balconies of lunar concrete.
out, a ragged cheer went up from Jules Verne, to echo off the
becalmed with wonder.  And when the lights in the sky went
every other face in the street upraised, the strolling tourists
  When he was able to look away, to lower his eyes, he found
chrome, stars against night sky.  Face of Miss Linda Lee.
to form a vast simple portrait, stippled the ultimate mono-
they had arranged themselves, individually and in their hundreds,
to swarm like live things at the dead center of reality.  Until
hologram sky, shift, sliding fluid down the axis of darkness,
loser's zodiac of Freeside, the nightclub constellations of the
head back, his lips curled, shaking.  While he watched the
  And then he was frozen, erect, fists tight against his thighs,
bisecting his skull at a dozen angles.
rumbling in his ears, his own blood, razored sheets of light
crazily across the flagstone pavement of Jules Verne, a distant
  He couldn't feel his legs.  He used them like stilts, swaying
  `Fuck you!' she screamed behind him, `you ripoff shit!'
someone out of the way.
  He dropped her hand and stumbled for the door, shoving
white behind his eyes.
asymmetries of breast and collarbone, the -- something flared
glass, a tint of dead metal, a faint bloating, the most minute
Cath and saw each pore in the tanned skin, eyes flat as dumb
words emerging like discrete balloons of sound.  He looked at
things, the pink and white of mouth parts moving, moving,
lead.  The faces around them in Emergency were painted doll
seismic fluid, rich and corrosive.  His erection was a bar of
out behind the betaphenethylamine rush like a carrier wave, a
  The anger was expanding, relentless, exponential, riding
We got it.  Up the hill, we'll have it all night.'
  `Come on,' she said, taking his hand.  `You got it now. 
of purest crystal, expanding...
waves of high thin static that broke behind his eyes, spheres
storms raged across the scoured floor of his skull, generating
and polished, the joints lubricated with a film of silicone.  Sand-
His bones, beneath the hazy envelope of flesh, were chromed
like tuning forks, each one pitch-perfect and clear as ethanol. 
cuited sexual energy.  His teeth sang in their individual sockets
illuminating the sutures of his skull with x-rays of short-cir-
of light mounting his spine from the region of his prostate,
  The drug hit him like an express train, a white-hot column
  `I guess.  But she's _triff,_ you know?  Like, all that money.'
his hands fumble an outline.  `Dark hair?  Young?'
  `3Jane, she's got a pointy face, nose like a bird?'  He watched
and smoothed it across his inner wrist.
as she tore the bubble away, peeled the derm from its backing,
She tucked the folded paper back into her purse.  Case watched
but I can't ever get it right.  The necks come out backwards.' 
  `Hideo gave it to me,' she said.  `He tried to show me how,
floor; Case stooped and picked it up.  An origami crane.
ble with a blue derm inside.  Something white tumbled to the
quick.  She opened the purse and withdrew a paperbacked bub-
nails were bright pink against her boosted tan, bitten to the
  She wore a tiny leather purse on a slender neck-thong.  Her
derm.  So we can be together.'
She snuggled in against him.  `Hey, Lupus, man, you need a
pools and lilies.  It's a castle, a real castle, all stone and sunsets.' 
  `Straylight, they call it.  She told me, oh, it's pretty, all the
  `Where's it get boring?'
as she brings Hideo to take care of her.'
for her, in there.  Her old man lets her out sometimes, as long
Bruce and I, we make the party circuit...  It gets real boring
have been intended as a look of modesty, `she likes to party. 
  `Oh, you know,' she said, lids half lowered in what must
cloth.  She squirmed against him.  Laughed.
He spread his fingers, kneading the flesh beneath the thin black
deb?  You an'~ Bruce secret heirs to some ripe old credit?  Huh?' 
how you meet these aristos, Cathy?  You some kinda closet
an eyebrow.  Put his arm around her, his hand on her hip.  `So
  `No shit.  You keepin'~ some class company, huh?'  He raised
  `Freeside!'
  `This bar?'
  `Lady 3Jane.  She's triff.  Rich.  Her father owns all this.'
while he spoke.  `Dee-Jane?'
  Case forced himself to stare dully at the Emergency crowd
  `3Jane's, what she calls it, retainer.  Family retainer.'
  `Never said.  Who's Hideo?'
like it with girls?'
Hideo.  Scares me.'  She smiled too widely.  `I like that.  She
  `I saw that girl you're with.  Day I met you.  Walks like
  `I never screw up.'  He lit his cigarette.
had to chop one off every time you screwed up.'
  `How come you got all your fingers, then?  I thought you
for a cigarette.
  `You got an eye, huh?'  He withdrew his hand and fumbled
Yakuza.'
`You're Yak, aren't you, Lupus?  Gaijin soldierman for the
  She took his hand between hers, her palms hot and dry. 
  `If I follow you.'
follow me...'
iest crib.  People down the well on business tonight, if you
  `I got a key.  Up the hill behind the Paradise, just the cream-
  `And what's that supposed to lead to?'
  `Then you need another one.'
  `Yeah.  But the comedown's a bitch.'
`You get off?'
She was quivering, vibrating invisibly with the fresh buzz. 
mous pupils and a tendon in her neck tense as a bowstring. 
close now, radiating heat and tension, eyes slitted over enor-
  `You like the beta you got off us, Lupus?'  She was very
honey?'
then looked back at her.  `What do you think you're up to,
  `Sure.'  He automatically scanned the faces around them,
saw the blue derm on her wrist.  `Like it?'
ran her palm across the fabric, curve of the pelvic girdle.  He
  `I got him to drop me off at this shop.  Bought this.'  She
fusion with a sip of Carlsberg.
  `Thought you went home,' he said, and covered his con-
her hair still wild from the ride in the Honda.
  He opened his eyes.  Cath stood beside him in a black shift,
  `Gangster.'
some part of him said.  _It's the meat talking, ignore it._
now he'd found this warm thing, this chip of murder.  _Meat,_
and numb at the cold sweating center of every drug deal.  But
his nights down Ninsei, his nights with Linda, numb in bed
  `Numb,' he said.  He'd been numb a long time, years.  All
  It was a strange thing.  He couldn't take its measure.
exchange with the holo-construct of Lonny Zone.
a place to sleep.  But he hadn't become aware of it until his
Lee, yanking away the simple animal promise of food, warmth,
arcade, when Wintermute rescinded the simstim ghost of Linda
of brains and blood.  He knew then: the rage had come in the
of Deane struck a semblance of an office wall in an explosion
anger.  Small and far away, on the mind's screen, a semblance
loathing after Linda's death under the inflated dome.  But no
his dealing interests in Night City, and a slack sickness and
maiming in Memphis, nothing at all when he'd killed to defend
from?  He remembered feeling only a kind of bafflement at his
small coal of his anger.  It was there still.  Where had it come
the wall.  Closing his eyes, he felt for the knot of rage, the pure
  He bought a mug of Carlsberg and found a place against
of the Tessier-Ashpools?
there now?  The ground plans of the Villa Straylight?  The history
little screen dissuaded him.  What was Wintermute revealing
rented cubicle, but the image of her mirrored eyes fixed on the
tension.  He thought briefly of the nameless club above Molly's
it was a tourist place.  No hum of biz here, only a glazed sexual
most crowded, but it took only seconds for him to realize that
gency.  He chose Emergency because it was the smallest and
the Paradise, le Monde, Cricketeer.  Shozoku Smith's, Emer-
  In Straylight?  He walked on, past bars named the Hi-Lo,
system, controlled by some central computer.
turrets of lasers.  The drones were part of the spindle's security
seen a wink of reflected neon off glass, either lenses or the
butterfly.  Then it was gone, beyond the mesa's edge.  He'd
of gossamer polymer, its wings silkscreened to resemble a giant
the invisible casino.  The thing was a kind of pilotless biplane
verge of an artificial mesa, lit for seconds by the soft glow of
a drone microlight bank gracefully in an updraft at the green
the grassy tablelands of another casino complex.  Case watched
balconied terraces of Freeside cliff dwellers rising gradually to
of Desiderata and Jules Verne formed a kind of gulch, the
the faces of dice, a top hat, a martini glass.  The intersection
glittered with fanciful constellations suggesting playing cards,
  Directly overhead, along the nighted axis, the hologram sky
faces of the month's newest simstim stars.
covers of dozens of glossy Japanese magazines presenting the
turned and walked past a vast, brilliantly lit newsstand, the
  Case watched Bruce's trike until it was out of sight, then
the left.
far enough, you'd find yourself approaching Desiderata from
If you turned right, off Desiderata, and followed Jules Verne
at either end in the supports of the Lado-Acheson light pumps. 
spindle's midpoint, while Desiderata ran its length, terminating
  Rue Jules Verne was a circumferential avenue, looping the

        12



  `Sure.  Drop me down Jules Verne, where the bars are.'
  `Can we go home, now?' Bruce asked.
Cath said unhappily, thumbing a fresh derm against her wrist.
  `Just can't see you the kinda guy goes for the puppets,'
  `Try it sometime,' he said, rubbing his eyes.
  `How was it?' Bruce asked, as Case climbed into the Honda.

  `Maybe you hate yourself, Case.'
  `Maybe I hate it.'
  `Maybe it wants you to hate something too.'
nodded.
stumbling over what the Zone-figure had said about Linda.  She
  `I had a visit too,' he said, and told her about the window,
  She smiled.  Cold.  `He's going to die, yeah.  Soon.'
  Case remembered the face he'd seen.  `You gonna kill him?'
kinda...'
3Jane, all that dedication shit.  She was there in a private box,
  `He's already there.  Straylight.  On the invitation of Lady
  `After him?'
there after him.'
wants me to hate him real bad, so I'll be psyched up to go in
  `So Riviera hit a nerve last night,' she said.  `I guess it
  Case stared at her.
tract out on me.  I had to hide for a while.'
her fingers back through her dark hair.  `The house put a con-
know?'  The shaking stopped.  She released the foam and ran
  `So I guess I gave the Senator what he really wanted, you
  She began to shake.
_finished_ yet...'
saying, `What's wrong.  What's wrong?'  'Cause we weren't
tugged at the temperfoam.  `Dead.  And that fat prick, he was
covered with blood.  We weren't alone.  She was all...'  She
`Senator, he was.  Knew his fat face right away.  We were both
with a customer...'  She dug her fingers deep in the foam. 
disturbed the cut-out chip.  I came up.  I was into this routine
`Surgeons went way in, that trip.  Tricky.  They must have
out with her heel, and sat down, leaning against the wall. 
come back from Chiba.'  She dropped the cigarette, ground it
  `Bad dreams.  Real ones.  One night... one night, I'd just
  `So what was he charging for?'
paying me, and he thought I didn't know.'
her head.  `That prick was charging _eight_ times what he was
Molly, the boss says, and gives me this shit raise.'  She shook
a whole little _clientele_ going for me.  Nothing's too good for
just dreams, but by then I'd started to figure that the boss had
and worse, and I'd tell myself that at least some of them _were_
kept quiet about it.  I needed the money.  The dreams got worse
  She seemed to speak from a distance.  `And I knew, but I
markets.'
They switched the software and started renting to specialty
to _remember._  Like dreams, you know.  And they didn't tell me. 
a little nova right out on the rim of space.  But I was starting
It smells like rain...  You can see yourself orgasm, it's like
  `I wasn't conscious.  It's like cyberspace, but blank.  Silver. 
were conscious while you were working?'
  `They knew you were picking up on this stuff?  That you
they switched me to, but it was based on all the classics.'
for mean kicks, Berlin.  I never knew who wrote the program
up.  Berlin, that's the place for snuff, you know?  Big market
bastard who ran the place, he had some custom software cooked
stream of smoke, capping it with three perfect rings.  `So the
I was ready to give up puppet time.'  She inhaled, blew out a
fine neuromotor work would take another three trips.  No way
what I was doing with the money.  I had the blades in, but the
cigarettes from his pocket and lit one.  `The house found out
She smiled.  `Then it started getting strange.'  She pulled his
member it...  But it was just bad dreams, and not all bad.' 
patible.  So the worktime started bleeding in, and I could re-
cut-out and the circuitry the Chiba clinics put in weren't com-
knuckles.  `Fine.  I was getting my money.  Trouble was, the
whatever a customer wants to pay for...'  She cracked her
aren't in, when it's all happening.  House has software for
sore, sometimes, but that's it.  Renting the goods, is all.  You
they plant the cut-out chip, it seems like free money.  Wake up
a place like it, in the Sprawl.  Joke, to start with, 'cause once
I got the money, when I was starting out?  Here.  Not here, but
you'll have the reflexes to go with the gear...  You know how
surgery, costs to have them jack your nervous system up so
retracted smoothly.  `Costs to go to Chiba, costs to get the
though it held an invisible fruit.  The five blades slid out, then
  `This cost a lot,' she said, extending her right hand as
  `I don't get it.'
  `What he did to me.  The show.'
  `Why?'
  `'Cause, if I'd stayed, I might have killed Riviera.'
ran?'
  `What was that all about, in the restaurant?  How come you
dark shirt.  `The run's tomorrow, Wintermute says.'
of all.'  She stood up.  She wore her leather jeans and a loose
  `There isn't any.  That's the most expensive special service
  `Where's the meat puppet?'
termute's telling me about Straylight.'
at a small monitor set into the wall opposite the bed.  `Win-
right?'  She sat beside him.  `And getting a briefing.'  She pointed
  `Shoulda been lower.  I wanna be alone.  I'm meditating,
  `You kicked me,' he managed.
  He clutched his stomach.
out.  Count.'
  `Breathe in.  Count.  One, two, three, four.  Hold it.  Now
  He shook his head and fell across the bed.
  `You bribe the help, upstairs?'
cubicle.
from his chest.  She helped him up and shoved him into the
  `Chip,' he said, struggling for breath.  Pain was spreading
locks, Case?  Case?  You okay?'  She leaned over him.
rose.  `You're an idiot to try that.  How the hell you open those
  `Jesus Christ,' she said, cuffing the side of his head as she
from his eyes...
his back, the blades of her rigid thumbs quivering centimeters
ten the door open.  He was on his knees, the steel door against
  She seemed to hit him, somehow, before he'd actually got-
  The bolts clicked.
  He placed his chip against the black plate.
the sound.
against enameled metal.  Nothing.  The door seemed to absorb
proof.  It was pointless to try the chip.  He rapped his knuckles
The silence of the hallway said that the cubicles were sound-
  The door of forty-three was like all the others.  He hesitated. 
out.  He backed out of the cubicle and closed the door.
eyes were soft and unblinking.  Automatic pilot.  A neural cut- 
  The girl sat up in bed and said something in German.  Her
  Magnetic locks.  The sound reminded him of Cheap Hotel.
set directly beneath the number plate.
confused, he raised his chip and placed it against a black sensor
  He found his cubicle.  He'd been looking for Molly's, now,
hush like the halls of an expensive clinic.
evator and chose a direction at random.  Numbered doors.  A
  The corridor lights were blue.  Case stepped out of the el-
  An elevator slid open behind her.
She smiled.  She returned his chip.
access our special services display beforehand, if you like.' 
  `Number thirty-five.  Phone if it isn't satisfactory.  You can
  `Female,' he said automatically.
plate on the face of the terminal.
  `Gender preference?'  She passed the chip across a glass
chip.
desk, a terminal on her lap.  `Lower level.'  He handed her his
  `I want a cubicle,' he said to the girl who sat at the low
ments of half a dozen European languages as he passed.
  He walked quickly past the crowded tables, hearing frag-
toward the rear of the club.
downstairs.'  He showed his Freeside chip.  The man gestured
  `Downstairs,' he said to a passing waiter, `I want to go
residents of the islands.
crowd was mixed; maybe half were tourists, the other half
Jules Verne, but the real thing.  Commerce.  The dance.  The
was it, the local action.  Not the high-gloss facade of the Rue
sense to him.  Biz.  He could feel it humming in the air.  This
Yeheyuan looking over the tables.  Freeside suddenly made
Six turns and he'd reached a nightclub.  He paused and lit a
  Case turned and descended a spiral staircase of floral iron. 
She shrugged.
cubicle.  If they let you in, fine.  If they don't wanna see you...' 
  `Just go down to the lowest level and find your friend's
  `Not really,' Case said.  `That's a problem?'
shoulder and peered up.  The drive had dried her hair.
  `You expected, Lupus?'  Cath craned forward over Bruce's
three.'
part of the address, I think that's a cubicle.  Number forty- 
  `We'll wait, yeah.'  He scratched his bare chest.  `That last
  `No saying.  But you'll wait.'
`You be long?'
haust as the red fiberglass chassis swayed on chromed shocks. 
the Honda.  Condensation dribbled from the hydrogen-cell ex-
to repeat the address for the eighth time.  He climbed back into
  `That level's the cubicles,' Bruce said, after asking Case

  `We go now,' Case said.
  `I gotta Honda trike,' Bruce said, grinning vacantly.
the shower.
  `I knew he was a gangster,' Cath called cheerfully from
  Case recited the address the Flatline had given him.
  Bruce blinked.  `Sure.'
we're friends, right?  Aren't we?'
  `Going to help me.  You're really glad to see me.  Because
  `Hey, really, man, we're...'
aside and stepped into the room.
  `No.  Thanks.  I want some help.'  He pushed the boy's arm
we're just having a shower.  You wanna wait?  Wanna shower?'
naked in his doorway, dripping wet, his pupils enormous.  `But
  `Hey.  Lupus.  Hey, Cath, it's friend Lupus.'  Bruce stood

  Rage.
the treasure.
  He sat on the bed for a long time, savoring the new thing,
  `A pleasure.'
disconnect the modem.  Thanks, Dix.'
  `Okay,' Case said.  `Tell the Hosaka to tell Maelcum to
I could get without leaving a calling card.'
`Place had some weird ice around it for a nightclub.  That's all
it, but it isn't much.'  The construct rattled off an address. 
  `Case?'  The Flatline was waiting.  `Where you been?  I got
  From the bed, the phone bleated steadily.
the condos.  The Braun shut off.
  Zone vanished, replaced by Freeside night and the lights of
  `Don't fuck up the hands, man.  Soon you punch deck.'
  Case's fist glanced off the glass.
You couldn't handle it.  She's dead.'
you.  I know that.  For the little she was worth, she loved you. 
Love.  So you'd give a shit.  Love?  Wanna talk love?  She loved
in my line of work.  Know why she decided to rip you off? 
Linda, man.  I know all the Lindas.  Lindas are a generic product
really matter to Mr.~ Case?  Quit kidding yourself.  I know your
  `But I didn't.  What's it matter, though?  How much does it
window.
  `Don't,' Case said, taking an involuntary step toward the
me told Deane to off that little cunt of yours in Chiba.'
something, Case?  I figure you've got it figured out that it was
  `No.  You aren't that kind, man.  I know that.  You know
  `I'll bring this thing down around your ears,' Case said.
Case.  Keep losin'~ 'em, one way or another.'
  `You can't keep too good track of your women, can you,
  Zone shook his head.
  `So tell me where she is and I'll call him off.'
do that, man.  It's outside the profile.'
Flatline's ringing bells all over Freeside.  I didn't think you'd
  `Never you mind.  You're screwing up tonight, Case.  The
  `Where's Molly?'
  The pimp shrugged languidly and smiled.
  `Wintermute,' Case said.
  The voice came from the Braun's speakers.
sharkskin slacks.  `Really, man, you're lookin'~ very scattered.'
among the square tables, his hands in the pockets of his gray
with the slow undersea grace of his addiction.  He stood alone
  Lonny Zone stepped forward, tall and cadaverous, moving
to scratched infinity in the mirrored walls.
interior of the Jarre de Th, Chiba, empty, red neon replicated
Desiderata, but the street scene blurred, twisted, became the
  The glass wall of the balcony clicked in with its view of
man?'  The voice was slow, familiar.
jags of blue interference.  `Case, baby, you lose your mind,
a question in German.  Case stared.  The screen jumped with
reclining against metallic cushions.  An unseen interviewer asked
room's Braun audiovisual complex lit up.  A Japanese pop star
his teeth.  As he was stepping back out, the monitor on the
on the temperfoam.  He went into the bathroom and brushed
Case carried it back into the room and put the receiver face up
  The phone whined and clicked with the construct's efforts. 
  `Go.'
net deep enough to get a fix.'
Checked out.  Take me a few minutes to screw their security
sound of the invasion.  He smiled.  `Done.  Rose Kolodny. 
  `No sooner said,' the Flatline said.  Case heard the white
their records for me.'
know what name she was using.  Ride in on this phone and do
the Intercontinental.  She was registered here too, but I don't
in here somewhere and I wanna know where.  I'm in 335W,
something for me.  You can be as blunt as you want.  Molly's
  `Dix, you're about to punch your way in here and get
chip, the carefully engineered accent lost entirely.
  `Hey, Case.'  The Flatline spoke through the Hosaka's voice
construct.  Dixie?'
  `Fuck it,' he said.  `Forget the ice.  No ice.  Access the
computer advised primly.
  `You are speaking from a heavily monitored location,' the
heard it beep.
simple phone link.  `Ice this,' he told the Hosaka, when he
  Case listened to faint static while Maelcum attached the
  `Movin'~, mon.  I get th'~ modem.'
  `Well, I need some help.'
  `How you doin'~ in there, mon?'
Then turn my deck on.  It's the stud with the ridges on it.'
  `Can you get it off for me, man?  Put it on my Hosaka. 
  `Yo.  On th'~ navigation comp, ya know.'
  `Case.  You got a modem, Maelcum?'
  Maelcum answered on the fifth tone.  `Yo?'
`the registration in question is Panamanian.'
  The chip voice recited a ten-digit number.  `Sir,' it added,
desk.  `It's a tug, registered out of Zion cluster.'
  `Get me a number for the _Marcus Garvey,'_ he told the
  He picked up the phone and carried it out to the cool balcony.
was rewarded with the condos that terraced the far slope.
hadn't bothered examining.  He turned the hologram off and
  He stared, then shook his head and crossed to a panel he
expensive shops: Gucci, Tsuyako, Hermes, Liberty.
unhappiness.  He looked up and saw a view of Desiderata,
scene beyond the window registered through his tension and
a note.  There was nothing.  Several seconds passed before the
beach after a retreating tide.  Her bag was gone.  He looked for
  Their room was silent, the temperfoam smooth as some

far shore and the nearest casino.
men and their girlfriend, who were waiting for the boat to the
  As he left the restaurant, he noticed the two young French-
candles.
she was gone, back into private laughter and the dance of
oddly by a narrow, avian nose with flaring nostrils.  And then
yet strangely fragile-looking, mouth wide and firm, balanced
striking face, but not beautiful.  Triangular, the cheekbones high
dark eyes intent on something beyond.  The stage.  It was a
ustrade; she leaned forward, face rapt, it seemed to him, her
projections, her small hands on the polished wood of the bal-
  The girl's face appeared as abruptly as one of Riviera's
the ceiling.
muted conversation.  The candles threw dancing shadows on
there in private darkness.  He heard the clink of silverware,
noticed the balcony for the first time, candles still flickering
diners were rising, women smiling as men made jokes.  He
  Case rubbed his forehead and looked around the room.  The
toward the exit.
  Armitage smiled his meaningless smile and walked away,
  `We run, tomorrow?'
sleep, Case.'
  Armitage stood, adjusting the lapels of his jacket.  `Get some
  `Why did Riviera do that to her?'
again.  You'll be together during the run.'
there at all.  `She's gone to prepare herself.  You won't see her
  The lights came up.  Case looked into the pale eyes.  Nothing
  `Tell me where she went, Armitage.'
of ice.  Case took it from him and set it in a water glass.
measure of red wine.  The broken stem protruded like a sliver
glass.  His left hand came up holding the bulb of glass with its
  `No.'  There was a soft _tink._  Armitage looked down at the
  `She go after him?'
  `Gone,' Armitage said.
  `Where is she?' Case asked.
between his fingers.
sat alone, still staring at the stage, the stem of the wineglass
  Molly's chair was empty.  The stage was deserted.  Armitage
Vingtime Sicle.
his hands over his clothes.  He turned and walked back into the
  Cheers from the restaurant, applause.  Case stood and ran
rotten lace.
takes him apart.  With those hands.  Dreamblood soaking the
symmetry: Riviera puts the dreamgirl together, the dreamgirl
  He could guess the end, the finale.  There was an inverted
and spat into the lake.
  What Riviera dreamed, you got.  Case shook his aching head
a van full of gear and a clumsy trode helmet.
turning, the onlookers clapping in time.  But that had needed
real to the quick beat of a salsa, dreamgirls shuddering and
bered thin Puerto Ricans under East Side streetlights, dreaming
in the Sprawl, they'd called it, `dreaming real.'  He remem-
  Case had seen the medium before; when he'd been a teenager
bright aura of the Rue Jules Verne.
against the cool wood, he stared across the shallow lake at the
head like a vise had released him now.  Kneeling, his cheek
of the lake.  Something that had seemed to close around his
  He vomited over a rosewood railing into the quiet waters
already up and stumbling for the door.
bare back.  Case caught a glimpse of exposed spine, but he was
With a languorous, dreamlike deliberation, it raked Riviera's
slowly extended a clawed hand and extruded its five blades. 
image began to couple with a renewed intensity.  Then the image
smooth quicksilver drowning the eyes.  Riviera and the Molly- 
The head was there, the image complete.  Molly's face, with
  Now limbs and torso had merged, and Riviera shuddered. 
his pale eyes fixed on the stage, the glowing room.
was leaning forward, his hands round the stem of a wineglass,
Riviera's projection heaved and turned in her mirrors.  Armitage
  Case glanced at Molly.  Her face was blank; the colors of
pinching, caressing hands.
boiled around Riviera and the twitching limbs, the scurrying,
yellowed, rotting lace that crumbled at a touch.  Motes of dust
with their bright nails.  The bed was thick now with folds of
torso writhed together on the bed, crawled over by the hands
wrong, the nipples larger, too dark.  Riviera and the limbless
Molly; it was Molly as Riviera imagined her.  The breasts were
  Molly's body.  Case stared, his mouth open.  But it wasn't
sheened with the faintest gloss of sweat.
Riviera caressed it into being, white, headless, and perfect,
seething with its blue inner flame.  Then the torso formed, as
fade away.  The black flower lay at the foot of the bed, still
a part of the projection, but Case couldn't remember seeing it
  Riviera was in the bed now, naked.  His clothing had been
of the wine.
Case's head throbbed.  His throat was dry.  He drank the last
The arms were next.  Feet.  Legs.  The legs were very beautiful. 
  The act progressed with a surreal internal logic of its own. 
of flesh and bone.
it, the fingers of the first were locked around his wrist, a bracelet
now a second hand lay on the bed.  When Riviera reached for
licking its palm.  The fingers tentatively caressed his face.  But
surgical boutique.  Riviera was holding the hand to his lips,
tattooed lozenge of vatgrown flesh in the window of a Ninsei
back smoothly, unbroken and unscarred.  He remembered a
  A hand, Case saw, but not a severed hand; the skin swept
were coated with a burgundy lacquer.
his mouth and began to lick the tips of the fingers.  The nails
stroke it gently.  The fingers moved.  Riviera raised the hand to
  Riviera leaned forward, picked up the hand, and began to
white fingers pale.
  A woman's hand lay on the mattress now, palm up, the
the most perfect detail...'
of her, only a small part, if I could see that part perfectly, in
tion in Japanese.  `I decided that if I could visualize some part
glass.  Someone giggled.  Someone else asked a whispered ques-
in the hush of the restaurant.  Ice clicked against the side of a
to hold her, hold her and more...'  His voice carried perfectly
  `I couldn't quite hold her, hold her in my mind.  But I wanted
  There was something on the bed.  Case blinked.  Gone.
haze, a shadow.'
her,' he said, `but I do remember that at first she was only a
on his lapel.  `I don't know when I first began to dream of
facing the bed.  The blue coals still burned in the black flower
  `I'd been alone in the room, always.'  He sat on the chair,
curve.  Riviera opened his eyes.
Case could see the thick coating of dust on the bulb's upper
bulb dangled above the bed on a twisted length of black wire. 
was bare.  Stained ticking with faded brown stripes.  A single
and flaked, revealing the black iron.  The mattress on the bed
other an iron bedstead painted white.  The paint had chipped
two pieces of furniture.  One was a plain wooden chair, the
The room's walls were yellowed white plaster.  It contained
`I couldn't remember ever having lived in any other room.' 
kept his eyes closed.  `I'd always lived in the room,' he said. 
  Riviera seemed to relax slightly.  He raised his head, but
the audience to view its contents.
had become a room, a room lacking its fourth wall, allowing
quiver with concentration.  Suddenly the ghostly cube was filled,
bowed, eyes closed, arms rigid at his sides, Riviera seemed to
stage might have been constructed of frozen moonbeams.  Head
had come back up slightly, but the framework surrounding the
sketching an open cube around the stage.  The restaurant's lights
  Lines of faint light began to form, verticals and horizontals,
with his head bowed.
had faded with the lights, but Case could still see him, standing
leaving only the glow of candles.  Riviera's holographic aura
  The restaurant's lights died entirely, for a few seconds,
`And to another lady.'
plause.  As it died, Riviera's eyes seemed to find their table. 
3Jane Marie-France Tessier-Ashpool.'  A wave of polite ap-
hands.  `I wish to dedicate its premiere here, tonight, to Lady
  `The title of the work is `The Doll.''  Riviera lowered his
applause.
impact and vanished into the shadows.  Someone whistled.  More
He dropped it.  A gray dove fluttered up from the point of
cool ruby of light formed in the palm of his upraised right hand. 
like to perform an extended piece for you.  A new work.'  A
  `Tonight,' Riviera said, his long eyes shining, `I would
against the side of the restaurant.
an embrace for his audience.  Case heard the shallow water lap
gernails flashed as he raised his hands in a gesture of greeting,
blue coals burned in the depths of a black carnation.  His fin-
  Riviera smiled.  He wore a white dinner jacket.  On his lapel,
the dark hangings behind the stage.  He was projecting.
  Riviera glowed.  The light clung around him like a skin, lit
  At first he assumed the man was illuminated by a spotlight.
come from.  His uneasiness increased.
he hadn't noticed the stage.  He hadn't seen where Riviera had
stage at the far end of the room.  Case blinked.  In his discomfort,
  `Good evening,' Riviera said, stepping forward on a small
  Molly picked her teeth with a burgundy nail.
ing.
  `What's happening?' Case asked Armitage, who said noth-
drinks were being poured.
a candle flickered at each of the restaurant's dozen tables, and
the center of their table, then began to remove the dishes.  Soon
the other tables.  A waiter lit a single candle and placed it in
ographic cabaret of Mr.~ Peter Riviera.'  Scattered applause from
with a pronounced Sprawl accent, `proudly presents the hol-
  `Le Restaurant Vingtime Sicle,' said a disembodied voice
  The lights dimmed.
ine made it taste like iodine.
  Case tried the wine.  The aftermath of the betaphenethylam-
  `You look fucking awful,' Molly said cheerfully.
pain.
wrinkled lobes, shot through with greenish-purple flashes of
and the fat had cooled, a thick dull grease congealing on the
No, he decided, it had been thrown into hot fat and left there,
  `Not hungry,' Case managed.  His brain was deep-fried. 
vat stuff.'  She forked a mouthful up and chewed.
raise a whole animal for years and then they kill it.  This isn't
You know what this costs?'  She took his plate.  `They gotta
  `Jesus,' Molly said, her own plate empty, `gimme that. 
whole thing.
he pushed around in the rich sauce, finally abandoning the
at his steak, reducing it to uneaten bite-sized fragments, which
  Molly and Armitage ate in silence, while Case sawed shakily
and sipped.  `I've ordered for you,' he said.
white silk shirt.  His gold bracelet rattled as he raised his wine
  Armitage wore a dark suit, too formal for the place, and a
travel, eat different stuff, sometimes.'
  `Just this hystamine reaction,' Case lied.  `Get it when I
  `I want you checked out by a medic,' Armitage said.
were shaking.  `Something I ate, maybe.'
fects.  He tried to pick up a glass of ice water, but his hands
  Case shuddered.  Bruce hadn't said anything about after ef-
on a small lake near the Intercontinental.
the smallest and most expensive of several floating restaurants
was seating them at his table in the Vingtime Sicle.  It was
  `Case, what's wrong with you?' Armitage said, as the waiter

        11



perfoam, `that's what's so _unnatural_ about it.'
  `But it will,' he said, climbing into the sand-colored tem-
  She laughed.  `It won't last.'
_look_ at this unnatural state.'
advantage of my unnatural state.'  He looked down.  `I mean,
underwear.  `I think you oughta have sense enough to take
Gloom.  All I ever hear.'  He took his pants off, his shirt, his
  `Bitch, bitch, bitch,' he said, unbuckling his belt.  `Doom. 
ass shape when it wears off.'
those surgeons did to you in Chiba, you are gonna be in sad- 
  `Man,' she said, `if whatever that is can get in past what
a rictus of delight, `beautiful.'
  `Yeah,' Case said, arching his back, his smile locked into
place.  We get to watch Riviera strut his stuff, too.'
big dinner date with Armitage tonight.  This Twentieth Century
She shook her head.  `I hope you're gonna be ready for our
  `I let you out of my sight for two hours and you score.' 
  `Truer words were never spoken.'
  `Christ,' she said, `just what we needed.'
rolled strip of bubble-packed blue derms from his shirt pocket.
  `I forget how to pronounce it,' he said, taking a tighty
the room.
  `What's got into you?'  The mirrors followed him across
  `Who else, honey?'
her lenses.
  `Case?'  Molly sat up in bed and shook the hair away from

derm that Bruce passed across the black bedspread.
  `I heard that one before,' Case said, taking the bright blue
pancreas passes on it, it's on the house.  First time's free.'
  `Tell you what,' the boy said.  `You do a taste.  If you
  `Thing is, can I metabolize it?'  Case raised his eyebrows.
  `Well,' Bruce cut in, `about this beta you want to buy...'
  `Yeah,' Case said, suddenly uneasy, `terrible thing.'
the King terrs put angel in the water, you know?'
_so_ natural.  And it was _bad_ there, Lupus, day after these Christ
we went down the well.  She was _that_ close, and she just smiled,
transparencies.  `Mine.  Shot 'em at the S/N Pyramid, last time
  `They're def triff, huh?' Cath asked seeing him eye the
balcony, suggesting an extended residency.
chromes of Tally Isham were taped across the glass of the
and on another level, closer to the surface.  Five huge Ciba-
  Their room was smaller than the one Case shared with Molly,
Case thought, watching the boy's brown eyes.
gone numb with boredom.  Got the attention span of a gnat,
Like tissue matching and all that.'  But Bruce's eyes had already
  `Well,' Case said, `it's just one of those things, you know? 
Cath, right down to the freckles.
name was Bruce.  He looked like a gender switch version of
`I mean, can't you sue them or something?  Malpractice?'  His
Case explained the peculiar properties of his Chiba pancreas. 
  `You're kidding,' said Cath's partner and roommate, when

chip.'
  `Betaphenethylamine,' she said.  `No sweat, but it's on your
much for that, he thought glumly, holding his smile for her.
  `No coke, no amphetamines, but _up,_ gotta be _up.'_  And so
your taste?'
of brownish hair that had pasted itself beside her mouth.  `What's
  Cath rocked back on her tanned heels and licked at a strand
can get some?'
  `No.  That's my problem, Cath.  Do you know where we
chlorinated water fell on the leg of his pants.
  `Well, do you _have_ any?'  She leaned closer.  Drops of
powerful central nervous system stimulants.'
  `Stimulants.  Central nervous system stimulants.  Extremely
  `What kind?'
  `I'm a drug addict, Cath.'
vented the formation of freckles.
  `Are you really a gangster?'  The melanin boost hadn't pre-
  `Greek,' he said.
  `What kind of name is that?'
  `Lupus,' after a pause.
`Cath,' she said.
  She squatted beside his chair, dripping water on the tiles. 
body and a melanin-boosted tan, but not one of the Paris jobs.
  He squinted up at her, against the band of sun.  A long young
a gangster, right?'
  `Don't tell me,' someone said, `I know it already.  You're
to his tuna, `I'd go nuts.'
raw tuna and rice and watched people tan.  `Christ,' he said,
enthusiastic Chinese waiter arrived with his food.  He munched
`Sushi,' he said, `whatever you got.'  Ten minutes later, an
an awning and pressed his chip against a dark glass plate. 
gleaming against turquoise tiles.  He edged into the shadow of
of trees and umbrellas, until he found a pool, naked bodies
  On the roof meadow, he made his way through the grove
for a fast game of something, but Case had no idea what.
tween a miniature oar and an orthopedic brace.  She was off
the expensive-looking thing in her hand resembled a cross be-
black and nonreflective.  Her white nylon shoes had steel cleats;
spotless whites, cheekbones and nose daubed with something
and got into the elevator.  He rode up with an Italian girl in
sure, with the glasses.  He shrugged tension from his shoulders
  He left without waking Molly, he thought.  He was never
my liver, little bags of shit melting, fuck it all.  I wanna buzz.'
truly do wanna get high, you know?  Trick pancreas, plugs in
  `I wanna buzz,' he said to the blue artifice of the sky.  `I
it vanished behind the band of the Lado-Acheson system.
angular shadow tracking across meadows and rooftops, until
polymer wings as it soared up the curve of Freeside, its tri-
He sat on the balcony and watched a microlight with rainbow
  Molly was sleeping when he returned to the Intercontinental. 

  `It's my nature.'
  `Sometimes you repeat yourself, man.'
of dying.'
  `Sure,' the construct said, `unless you got a morbid fear
  `Or an AI.'  He sighed.  `Can we run it?'
slow virus.  Take six hours, estimated, to crack a military target.'
gone for a few seconds, then returned.  `Hot shit.  Case.  It's a
  The half sense of someone reading over his shoulder was
to scan its instruction face and tell me what you think.'
  `Okay,' he said, finally, `I'm slotting this virus.  I want you
  Case glared at the pink spheres of Sikkim.
magnetic shotgun wired to its forehead.'
fuckers, you know that.  Every AI ever built has an electro-
to make itself smarter, Turing'll wipe it.  _Nobody_ trusts those
ute, I mean the nanosecond, that one starts figuring out ways
themselves time to write cookbooks or whatever, but the min-
the nonlaugh.  `See, those things, they can work real hard, buy
its own, so that's maybe where the confusion comes in.'  Again
the parent company makes, and some move the AI makes on
And I can't see how you'd distinguish, say, between a move
wired shackles that keep this baby from getting any smarter. 
cerned.  My guess, Case, you're going in there to cut the hard-
  `Autonomy, that's the bugaboo, where your AI's are con-
steel combine.
and he saw the complex of pink spheres representing a sikkim
the deck nervously, at random.  The matrix blurred, resolved,
  `So it's getting ready to burn itself?'  Case began to punch
zenship.  Sure.  Lotsa luck, AI.'
brain and what you know, but your thoughts have Swiss citi-
  `That's a good one,' the construct said.  `Like, I own your
mainframe.'
  `Swiss citizen, but T-A own the basic software and the
  `It own itself?'
  `So you figure we can't get on to its motive?'
it just might.  But it ain't no way _human.'_
ain't likely to write you no poem, if you follow me.  Your AI,
The ugly laughter sensation rattled down Case's spine.  `But I
ROM.  It's one of them, ah, philosophical questions, I guess...' 
  `Well, it _feels_ like I am, kid, but I'm really just a bunch of
  `Wait a sec,' Case said.  `Are you sentient, or not?'
on it.  Me, I'm not human either, but I _respond_ like one.  See?'
  `Nope.  I mean, it's not human.  And you can't get a handle
  `Well, yeah, obviously.'
an AI.  Not human, see?'
  `Motive,' the construct said.  `Real motive problem, with
me to maybe shaft Armitage.  What goes?'
calls itself Wintermute is trying to get on my good side, get
it's paying us to burn it.  It's burning itself.  And something that
Chinese icebreaker.  So if Wintermute's backing the whole show,
the spindle, and we're supposed to cut our way in with the
they link via Straylight, the T-A home base, down the end of
is the one that flatlined you, that first time.  So it looks like
Berne, but it's linked with another one in Rio.  The one in Rio
an AI that belongs to Tessier-Ashpool.  The mainframe's in
background, okay?  Armitage seems to be setting up a run on
  `Looks like it.  Listen, Dix, and gimme the benefit of your
  `Possible.  Sure.  If it's military.'
cut an AI.'
here, a one shot cassette.  Some people in Frankfurt say it'll
  Case sighed.  `Well, I got a user-friendly Chinese icebreaker
  `No.'
  `Ever hear of a grading system like Kuang, Mark Eleven?'
  `Not a whole hell of a lot.'
Chinese virus programs?'
  `Dixie,' he said, jacking in, `what do you know about
Tessier-Ashpool.
  It took three more jumps up the ladder before he reached
  `Do it again.  Who owns Reinhold?'
  `Reinhold Scientific A.G., Berne.'
  He drummed his hands on the Ono-Sendai.
  `Done.'
  `Code it.  Standard commercial code.'
  `Delay for interorbital transmission,' said the Hosaka.
owns Bockris, the people in Frankfurt?'
Zhongshan.  `On,' he said, changing his mind.  `Question.  Who
of her day in Macao.  Armitage had crossed the border into
Hosaka with a length of silver tape, remembering Molly's story
  `Off.'  Case fastened the virus cassette to the side of the
  `Yes.'
  `It's Chinese?'
  `Kuang Grade Mark Eleven.'
  `Jesus Christ.  What did you call it?'
  `Existing military systems and artificial intelligences.'
  `How about an AI?'
particularly with regard to existing military systems...'
entirely compatible and yields optimal penetration capabilities,
ther advises that interface with Ono-Sendai Cyberspace 7 is
Kuang Grade Mark Eleven penetration program.  Bockris fur-
vises, under coded transmission, that content of shipment is
  `Data transfer from Bockris Systems GmbH, Frankfurt, ad-
  `What is this thing?' he asked the Hosaka.  `Parcel for me.'
but something about them brought back the nausea of SAS.
the waving fronds of transparent caulk.  He wasn't sure why,
ying himself with a caulk gun.  Case hastily looked away from
  Maelcum kicked off and drifted past the pilot console, bus-
  `Okay.  Well, you leave me to it, okay?'
what an'~ wherefore, you wanna know.'
  `Well.  Japan-mon, he says Hosaka here'll tell you every
before it can work on anything.'
get into your software.  I've got to interface it through the deck,
  `A program.  Virus program.  Can't get into you, can't even
for the steel cassette.
  `Not on _this_ boy tug, mon,' Maelcum said firmly, reaching
virus.'
  `No,' Case said, turning it over, `but it's a weapon.  It's
passed it to Case.  `Thas part some gun, mon?'
carefully slit the plastic.  He extracted a rectangular object and
nylon lanyard out of the hip pocket of his tattered shorts and
than Case's head, fished a pearl-handled switchblade on a green
  Maelcum produced a white lump of foam slightly smaller
`let's see it.'
saka and fumbled into the straps of the web.  `Well,' he said,
  Free of the suit, Case pulled himself gingerly over the Ho-
goods for you; nice Japan-boy inna yacht, mos'~ pretty yacht.'
  `Two hour ago,' Maelcum said, `I take delivery of Babylon
scooter frame with a chemical engine.
  Aerol had ferried him out to _Marcus Garvey_ in a skeletal
launching gear for the hang gliders and miniature microlights.
would be the mountains Molly climbed, the bicycle loop,
rowed, gravity decreased; somewhere above him, he'd decided,
miniature induction train.  As the diameter of the spindle nar-
Case had taken an elevator down to the hull and ridden a
the end of the spindle, near the weightless axis.  To reach it,
fine.'  Aerol had been waiting at one of the sporting docks at
out of the red Sanyo vacuum suit.  `Aerol say you doin'~ jus'~
  `Mon, you doin'~ jus'~ fine,' Maelcum said, helping Case

  `Soon,' Armitage said.  `Get going, Case.'
  `How soon?' Case asked, meeting the pale stare.
rection.'  Straylight, Case thought.
zero-g.  Tomorrow, maybe, you can hike in the opposite di-
  `I want you to hike up the far end to the axis, work out in
  `How about me?' Molly asked.  `I got chores today?'
do have a larger boat, standing by, but the tug is a nice touch.'
  `Zion suggested we use it.  Good cover, when we move.  I
eyes.
hire a _JAL_ taxi?' Case asked, deliberately avoiding the man's
  `How come we get shipped over in a shitcan and you two
it, and get out to the boat.  You've got about three hours.'
shop and get yourself fitted for a vac suit, get checked out on
Armitage said.  `On that tug.  I want you to get over to the pro
  `You've got an audition yourself, Case, this afternoon,'
vanished.  He dropped it into the pocket of his seersucker blouse.
palm and smiled.  Small glittering insects swarmed out of it,
to be at my best.'  He cupped the foil packet in his upturned
  `I have an audition this afternoon,' Riviera said.  `I'll need
mitage.
caught it in midair.  `He could off himself,' she said to Ar-
from an inside pocket and flipped it across the table.  Riviera
  `Pig for it, aren't you?'  She took a flat, foil-wrapped packet
  `Give it to him,' Armitage said.
back.
  `You will,' Riviera said, his eyes cutting to Armitage and
showing her teeth.
  `Peter,' she said, `and what if I won't?'  She smiled without
I'm out.'
on his chair, `you'll have to dole me out more of the medicine. 
  `Molly, love,' Riviera said, almost before he was settled
in a loose gray seersucker outfit that perversely suggested prison.
though his regimental patches had just been stripped, Riviera
coffee, Armitage in tailored khakis that made him look as
  Armitage and Riviera arrived as they were finishing their
  `The grass.  Smells that way after they cut it.'
  `What's that smell?' he asked Molly, wrinkling his nose.
style, one he'd seldom seen in Chiba.
tificial bruises; it was, he knew, an extremely conservative
awaited sarariman husbands, their oval faces covered with ar-
at another table, three Japanese wives in Hiroshima sackcloth
crafted their leather sandals and simple jewelry.  Beyond them,
signers of their white cotton ducks, for the artisans who'd
for racing; they deserved decals for their hairdressers, the de-
enamel of the table.  They looked to Case like machines built
girl's small hard breasts, one boy's wrist resting on the white
tilinear patterns, outlining and highlighting musculature, the
selective melanin boosting, multiple shades overlapping in rec-
saw that their tans were uneven, a stencil effect produced by
he'd seen gliding above river mist the evening before.  Now he
from a nearby table caught his attention: the golden children
tering radiance of the Lado-Acheson sun.  A burst of French
the bright umbrellas shaded the hotel's guests from the unfal-
gentle and too cleverly irregular slopes of sweet green grass,
too entirely and definitively treelike.  Between the trees, on
a street boy's sense of style told him that these were too cute,
have been hard pressed to distinguish a pine from an oak, but
genetic engineering and chemical manipulation.  Case would
  The trees were small, gnarled, impossibly old, the result of
`Maybe more.'
  He said it was.  `Real as this,' he added, looking around. 
croissant.  `Like simstim?'
  `And it was like real?' she asked, her mouth full of cheese
be doing it through Wintermute.
have become academic.  If Armitage were tapping them, he'd
buzz the Berne AI.  The whole question of bugging seemed to
unnatural number of trees.  He told her about his attempt to
studded with striped umbrellas and what seemed to Case an
  They had breakfast on the roof of the hotel, a kind of meadow,
  `You were dreaming,' she said.
okay?  You notice any lights?'
He went to the bed and began to pull his jeans on.  `You sleep
self in the mirror.  `Christ.  You mind if I get dressed now?' 
  Case regarded his pallid foot morosely, then looked at him-
the instant tan's okay.'
look like a cheap-ass hood who's up for what he can get, so
exotic.  I got a big straw hat for this, too.  You, you just wanna
  She wore loose black silks and black espadrilles.  `I'm an
Don't exactly look like you spend all your time sunbathing.'
  `What about you,' he said, `you gonna dye yourself brown? 
handwoven fabric.
tinted to resemble sand.  There was a lot of pale wood and
always irritated him.  The temperfoam of the huge bed was
synthetics.  Expensive, Case knew, but it was a style that had
looked as though it had been machine-made or produced from
empty tube into a large wicker basket.  Nothing in the room
There isn't enough to do your foot.'  She stood, tossing the
  `Nah, but it looks like you care enough to fake it.  There. 
on his left ankle, kneeling beside him.
`you think that looks real?'  She was using the last of the tube
  `Christ,' he said, standing naked in front of the mirror,
pallor would attract too much attention.
  Molly insisted on coating him with bronzer, saying his Sprawl

there.
into its side, as though the wasps themselves had worked it
he'd seen the T-A logo of Tessier-Ashpool neatly embossed
  In the dream, just before he'd drenched the nest with fuel,
only the rush of water, far down the face of the Intercontinental.
at the start of a recorded dawn.  There were no voices now,
was dark.  Afterimages, retinal flares.  The sky outside hinted
  He woke with the impression of light fading, but the room
open window, he heard Marlene laughing.
taking an eyebrow with it.  Five floors above him, from the
  When he did hit the ignition, it exploded with a thump,
life at his feet.
to press the ignition, and fuel hissed over the bulging, writhing
hideous in its perfection.  Alien.  He pulled the trigger, forgetting
vealing the thing as the biological equivalent of a machine gun,
mind's eye, a kind of time-lapse photography took place, re-
the staged progress from egg to larva, near-wasp, wasp.  In his
hatching cells, blind jaws of the unborn moving ceaselessly,
  Horror.  The spiral birth factory, stepped terraces of the
  He saw the thing the shell of gray paper had concealed.
flipped on the asphalt.
ened nest.  It had broken open.  Singed wasps wrenched and
  In the alley, the dragon in hand, he approached the black-
gulfed in flame, her bleached hair sizzling a special green.
kill us!'  Her voice sawing at his nerves, he imagined her en-
burn 'em.  You just knocked it off.  They'll come up here and
  `Shit!'  Marlene behind him, swaying.  `Stupid!  You didn't
alley, someone cheered.
tongue of pale fire, the nest charring, tumbling.  Across the
up to 100 psi, sprayed out past the white-hot coil.  A five-meter
switch, counted three, and pulled the trigger.  The fuel, pumped
from the nest and circled Case's head.  Case pressed the ignition
  The air in the Sprawl was dead, immobile.  A wasp shot
fuel, and went to the open window.  The hive began to buzz.
Case checked the batteries, shook it to make sure he had enough
a Frisco flamethrower, a thing like a fat anglehead flashlight. 
lightning bolt bleached into his dark crewcut.  The dragon was
occasional -- boyfriend, an enormous Frisco biker with a blond
lene's previous -- and, Case suspected at the time, still
maged in the sour closet for Rollo's dragon.  Rollo was Mar-
and the still heat of the room, `burn 'em.'  Drunk, Case rum-
Marlene.  `Kill the fuckers,' she said, her eyes dull with rage
  They'd each had a dozen beers, the afternoon a wasp stung
tents of the dumpsters.
the alley below like miniature copters buzzing the rotting con-
nest was a fist-sized lump of fiber, insects hurtling out to hunt
house on the blistered paint of the windowframe, but soon the
  He'd missed the first wasp, when it built its paperfine gray
striped mattress with no sheets.
when you flicked a lightswitch.  He slept with Marlene on a
boiled across grayish porcelain in the drain-plugged kitchenette
Marlene.  The elevator hadn't worked in a decade.  Roaches
mer, in a weekly rates hotel, fifth floor, with a girl called
unedited simstim tape.  He'd spent a month, his fifteenth sum-
  The dream, the memory, unreeled with the monotony of an
away from Molly, and tried to sleep.
Yeheyuan out in a bedside ashtray after his third puff, rolled
How subtle a form could manipulation take?  He stubbed the
  Wintermute could build a kind of personality into a shell. 
told himself, lighting up.  No reason.
and Molly's lighter.  There was no reason to suspect Deane, he
on Wintermute's orders?  Case groped in the dark for a cigarette
  But what if Deane, the real Deane, had ordered Linda killed
worked with givens, took advantage of existing situations.
in some darkened ward...  The Deane analog had said it
the flat personality-substitute called Armitage accreting slowly
wreck of a man named Corto, the words flowing like a river,
  Wintermute.  He imagined a little micro whispering to the
with blood.  Deane had had her killed.
dome.  Molly holding out a bag of ginger, the plastic filmed
  Linda.  Smell of burnt flesh in the shadows of the Chiba
  Deane.  Blood on the wall of the importer's office.
  Linda.
just beyond his reach.
something darker, hidden, that rolled away, diving like a fish,
rear wall of the office, Case was aware of another thought,
  Each time the image of Deane's shattered head struck the
alent to a case of beer.
amount of blood in the average human body was roughly equiv-
fact, happened at all.  Someone had once told him that the
if he told himself that it hadn't been Deane.  That it hadn't, in
slope.  Deane's death kept turning up like a bad card, no matter
woman's laughter from the stepped condos on the opposite
drifting in through the open glass panels of the balcony, a
peatedly, Molly curled beside him, and heard the water, voices
were like neatly edited segments of memory.  He woke re-
  Sleep wouldn't come.  When it did, it brought dreams that
of recorded cloud.  `Yeah,' he said, `sleep.'
in abstract imitation of some Bermudan sunset, striped by shreds
  The narrow band of the Lado-Acheson system smoldered
bones.  `Yeah, this is some place.'
  `Yeah,' Case said, rubbing his palms across his cheek-
some sleep.'
toss.  `You said you wanted to hit the bed.  Sleep.  I could use
  `Nobody,' she said, giving her shoulders an involuntary
  `We who?'
here or some place in Europe.'
and relaxed.  `Yeah.  We were gonna come here once, either
  She leaned beside him against the railing, her hands loose
water and flowers.  `Yeah,' he said, `lotta money.'
white teeth in a wide smile.  The air here smelled of running
and Case caught a flash of cropped dark hair, brown breasts,
of nylon in bright primary colors.  One of them swung, banked,
ride simple hang gliders a few meters above the spray, triangles
their balcony and watched a trio of tanned French teenagers
into cold mist and the sound of rapids.  Case went out onto
continental, a sloping glass-fronted cliff face that slid down
  Armitage had booked them into a place called the Inter-
when the people fall back down the well.'
screens working every minute, make sure the money stays here
said.  `Tourists, hustlers, anything.  And there's fine mesh money
  `It's just a big tube and they pour things through it,' Molly

it on a collagen base, but it's mink DNA.  What's it matter?'
  `Nah,' she responded, assuming he meant the furs, `grow
  `Unreal,' he said, looking up again.
son's Paris furs.
led him across Jules Verne, past a window displaying the sea-
  `Okay.  We get a cab or something.'  She took his hand and
  He shook his head.  `I dunno, yet.  Wait.'
happened to you, back there, man?  You flatlined.'
  `Okay.  I got our keys.'  She touched his shoulder.  `What
  `Wanna go somewhere, lie down.'
month.'
  `Get used to it.  I was a gambler's bodyguard here for a
  `Jesus,' he said, `I like this less than SAS.'
But it made no sense to his body.
to the curves of lakes, rooftops of casinos, other streets... 
sky were turned off, he'd stare up past the armature of light
generated a rotating library of sky effects around it, that if the
two-millimeter armature ran the length of the spindle, that they
that sunlight was pumped in with a Lado-Acheson system whose
too bright, and the recorded blue of a Cannes sky.  He knew
  There was a brilliant slash of white somewhere above them,
above them.  The sun...
tation tumbling from overhanging tiers and balconies that rose
light, here, was filtered through fresh green masses of vege-
angles in the shops and buildings that formed its walls.  The
floor of a deep slot or canyon, its either end concealed by subtle
  They were standing in a broad street that seemed to be the
a bitch, if you're not used to it.'
have trouble walking, just look at your feet.  The perspective's
  `Welcome to the Rue Jules Verne,' Molly said.  `If you
the spindle, was a branch of the Beautiful Girl coffee franchise.
The first thing he saw, when they gained the inner surface of
Customs, for Freeside, consisted mainly of proving your credit. 
did most of the talking.  Maelcum remained on board _Garvey._ 
  He was numb, as they went through customs, and Molly

        10



  `EEG flat as a _strap,'_ Maelcum protested.
  `Well, he's okay now.'
second.'
  `I saw th'~ screen, EEG readin'~ dead.  Nothin'~ movin'~, forty
seconds...'
guys do, is all.  Like, he wasn't dead, and it was only a few
  `It's cool,' Molly said.  `It's just okay.  It's something these
  `Mon,' Maelcum was saying, `I don't like this...'

  He'd been right about the brains.  And the blood.
the mouth with the .357.
  `That's good, motherfucker,' Case said, and shot him in
come apart on you, Case.  So I'll be counting on you...'
can no longer maintain that delicate balance.  He's going to
you're aware of that.  But Corto is in there, somewhere, and I
  `He's not quite a personality.'  Deane smiled.  `But I'm sure
  `Is he still crazy?'
the Congressional hearings.'
structure of obsessions was there: Screaming Fist, his betrayal,
bating were the best he could manage.  But the underlying
it.  Very far gone, in Toulon.  Eating, excreting, and mastur-
a part of.  Corto was the first, and he very nearly didn't make
quickly.  It's taken a very long time to assemble the team you're
givens.  I can sort a great deal of information, and sort it very
situations to plans, you see...  Really, I've had to deal with
mode, really.  I improvise.  It's my greatest talent.  I prefer
try to plan, in your sense of the word, but that isn't my basic
  `Yes.  And I assembled the file you accessed in London.  I
in that French hospital?'
  `Is the Corto story true?  You got to him through a micro
like that.'  Deane smiled.
Difficult to say if you're dealing with the man at all, in a case
say you're dealing with a small part of the man's left brain. 
point of view, with a man whose lobes have been severed.  Let's
aspect of that entity's brain.  It's rather like dealing, from your
shall we say, _potential_ entity.  I, let us say, am merely one
what you think of as Wintermute is only a part of another, a,
don't have nearly as many answers as you imagine I do, is that
his bonbon.  `Well, Case, all I can say to that, and I really
  `Why ain't I rich?'  Deane laughed, and nearly choked on
`If you're so goddam smart...'
ever has,' Case said, massaging his temples with his free hand. 
  `You make about as much sense as anything in this deal
the next day or so.'
ornate gold watch from a vest pocket and flicked it open, `for
is quite unstable.  Stable enough,' said Deane and withdrew an
who arranges things for Armitage.  Or Corto, who, by the way,
an `I' -- this gets rather metaphysical, you see -- I am the one
Tessier-Ashpool's link-up, aren't you?  Rio.  I, insofar as I _have_
his bonbon noisily.  `You're already aware of the other AI in
mainframe, Berne, with the Wintermute _entity.'_  Deane sucked
and it's quite a logical one, is in confusing the Wintermute
  `An artificial intelligence, but you know that.  Your mistake,
  `More or less.'
asking yourself, `is Wintermute?'  Am I right?'
  `Now,' Deane said briskly, `order of the day.  `What,' you're
in his hand, resting it on his thigh.
desk without taking his eyes off Deane.  He sat with the gun
  Case lowered himself into the swivel chair in front of the
per, popped it into his mouth.  `Sit,' he said around the candy.
Deane picked up a bonbon and stripped off its checkered wrap-
now.  You'll be making your run in a matter of days, Case.' 
when I reached you by phone in Istanbul.  Time's very short
  `Of course we do.  We have had for some time.  I was ready
  `Do we?'
We have a lot to talk about.'
the desk, straightened his chair, and sat down.  `Sit, old son. 
off before you'd managed to jack out.'  Deane walked around
wired into your deck, of course.  I'm glad I was able to cut you
  `Yes.  This is all coming to you courtesy of the simstim unit
mute.'
  Case lowered the gun.  `This is the matrix.  You're Winter-
I slipped.  Sorry.'
memories, and the emotional charge...  Well, it's very tricky. 
speak through her, but I'm generating all this out of your
Oh, and I'm sorry about Linda, in the arcade.  I was hoping to
another spokesperson.  This set isn't easy for me to maintain. 
would take me several hours -- your subjective time -- to effect
If you use that, you'll see a lot of brains and blood, and it
What I am.  But there are certain internal logics to be honored. 
  `Don't,' Deane said.  `You're right.  About what this all is. 
sight at Deane's pink, ageless face.
  Case brought the gun around and looked down the line of
light.
bone, a striped shirt, and a bow tie.  His glasses winked in the
the shadows.  He wore a three-piece drape suit in silk herring-
  `You needn't do that, old son,' Julie said, stepping out of
He raised the gun again.
jagged hole in the front of the desk.  Explosive bullet.  Azide. 
office like a flashbulb.  With his ears ringing, he stared at the
  The recoil nearly broke his wrist.  The muzzle-flash lit the
and pulled the trigger.
the gun with both hands, aiming for the center of the desk,
all this shit, you know, it's getting kind of... old.'  He raised
  `I guess I'm not in any hurry.  I guess it's your show.  But
the cluttered office, away from the pool of light.
cabinet to the left of the desk and stepped into the center of
  With the revolver in his right hand, Case edged past the
were handloads.  The soft lead was still bright and untarnished.
the cylinder out and examined each of the six cartridges.  They
The tape was old, brown, shiny with a patina of dirt.  He flipped
off.  The grip had been built up with layers of masking tape. 
antique, a .357 Magnum with the barrel and trigger-guard sawn
holster fastened beneath the desk with silver tape.  It was an
chair out of the way.  He found the gun in a cracked leather
  Case stepped around the broad steel desk and pushed Deane's
  There was no one there.
ginger samples.
settes, crumpled printouts, at sticky plastic bags filled with
desk.  Case stared at the guts of an ancient typewriter, at cas-
  The green-shaded brass lamp cast a circle of light on Deane's
came.  He crossed to the office door and tried it.  `Julie?'
  `Is the door locked?'  Case waited for an answer, but none
shipping modules filled the room with a smell of ginger.
table and the Neo-Aztec bookcases.  A wall of white fiberglass
clock still told the wrong time.  There was dust on the Kandinsky
rush, he told himself, no hurry.  The sagging face of the Dali
  He took his time climbing the stairs of Deane's office.  No

pack of cigarettes.  `I hear you.'
  `Okay,' he said, picking up the matches and opening the
logo and its Japanese translation.
JULIUS DEANE IMPORT EXPORT.  Case stared at the printed
pack of Yeheyuans lay at his feet, beside a book of matches. 
etables from a vendor's pushcart across the street.  An unopened
  Holograms flickered, neon danced.  He smelled boiled veg-
  Ninsei was deserted.
  He stepped out into the street.  The rain had stopped.
down corridors of consoles.
  Echoes moved through the hollow of the arcade, fading
Do you hear me, you son of a bitch?  You hear me?'
knuckled fist.  `I had a cigarette and a girl and a place to sleep. 
  `I had a cigarette,' Case said, looking down at his white- 
styrofoam cups.
console, dropped to the floor and lay amid flattened butts and
crumpled yellow candy wrapper, balanced on the edge of a
bared, his hands bunched into involuntary fists.  Empty.  A
empty, silent.  Case turned slowly, his shoulders hunched, teeth
  The sailor in the white t-shirt was gone.  The arcade was
a socket.  Gone.  He smelled burning meat.
body of knowledge driven into his head like a microsoft into
  She was gone.  The weight of memory came down, an entire
vibrated --
  Something shifted at the core of things.  The arcade froze,
  Something cracked.
  He smiled.
man.'  She squeezed his hand.
and something to eat.  Take you home.  It's good to see you,
  `Come on, then.'  She took his hand.  `We'll get you a coffee
  `I guess so.'
  `There you go.  You need a place to sleep, Case?'
  He shook his head.
  `Maybe somebody decked you, baby.  Got your roll intact?'
  `No.  Some kind of blackout.  I...  I woke up in the alley.'
  `Hey, it's a put-on, right?'  She peered at him.  `Right?'
  `Maybe... how long since you seen me?'
  `You high, Case?  Drinkin'~ again?  Eatin'~ Zone's dex?'
  `I don't know.'
Where you been?'
me.'  She passed him a cigarette.  `You look pretty strung, man. 
asshole.  Seventh level dungeon and the goddam vampires got
  `You made me blow my game,' she said.  `Look there,
  He kissed her.
How you doin'~?  Look wet.'
  She looked up as he put his arm around her, smiled.  `Hey. 
rimmed with smudged black paintstick.
  She was playing Wizard's Castle, lost in it, her gray eyes
Bonn on a Tank War console, an azure flash.
of sweat and bored tension.  A sailor in a white t-shirt nuked
ghosts overlapping in the crowded haze of the place, a smell
  Holograms twisted and shuddered to the roaring of the games,
arcade's entrance.
from the front of his shirt, he edged through the crowd to the
have money, or at least cigarettes...  Coughing, wringing rain
to be a Friday.  Linda was probably in the arcade.  Might
  On Ninsei, he took the measure of the crowd.  Friday.  It
behind the console, but gave up.
shivered.  Where was his jacket?  He tried to find it, looked
  He searched his pockets for money, found nothing, and
  Something had happened...
  He got to his feet, brushed wet hair out of his eyes.
  His back hurt, his spine.
of fluorescents.
  He glanced up and saw a sooty plastic window, a faint glow
across the side of the console in faded pinks and yellows.
of a gutted game console.  Streamlined Japanese was stenciled
him broken lengths of damp chipboard and the dripping chassis
  Light from a service hatch at the rear of the arcade showed
head.
him, receded, returned.  Rolling over, he sat up and held his
discarded fiberoptics.  The arcade's sea of sound washed over
  Rain woke him, a slow drizzle, his feet tangled in coils of

  A steady pulse of pain, midway down his spine --
you, you wig or something?'
  `Look, Case, you tell me what the fuck is going on with
and whores, under a poisoned silver sky...
  And faces peering in from a neon forest, sailors and hustlers
  Cold steel odor and ice caressed his spine.

  The dark came down like a hammer.
  `Jack out,' the Flatline said.
was darker now, gaining on him.  Falling.
down a twilit shaft of Swiss banks.  He looked up.  The sphere
MAX REVERSE.  The matrix blurred backward; they plunged
  Case felt the edge of the deck sting his palm as he slapped
tached itself from the cube.
  The gray area bulged smoothly, became a sphere, and de-
  `Back off, fast.'
  `Dixie...'
  A stippled gray circle formed on the face of the cube.
grid point.
  Case punched again, once; they jumped forward by a single
  `Knows we're here,' the Flatline observed.
a vast sheet of frosted glass.
internal shadows, as though a thousand dancers whirled behind
blank face, towering above him now, began to seethe with faint
  Case punched to within four grid points of the cube.  Its
  `Be my guest.'
  `I'm going in for a pass, Dixie.'
try and touch it.'
  `Don't look much, does it?' the Flatline said.  `But just you
simplicity suggesting extreme complexity.
  Wintermute was a simple cube of white light, that very
  That'll be it, Case thought.
  They ascended lattices of light, levels strobing, a blue flicker.
  `Up,' the construct said.  `It'll be high.'
punched again, for Berne.
cool geometric intricacy of Zurich commercial banking.  He
Eastern Seaboard Fission Authority was gone, replaced by the
of exhilaration as cyberspace shivered, blurred, gelled.  The
  Case punched for the Swiss banking sector, feeling a wave
  `Not unless you got a morbid fear of death, no.'
Can you think of any reason not to?'
  `Dix,' Case said, `I wanna have a look at an AI in Berne. 

dynamite, right?'
  `Go on,' she said, `the two of you are supposed to be
got himself flatlined, huh?  Trying to buzz an AI.  Great...'
  Case jacked out.  `Shit,' he said, `how do you think Dixie
  `Well, that's the stuff of legend, ain't it?'
  `And your EEG was flat.'
frying and pulled the trodes off me.  Mean shit, that ice.'
strata and that's all she wrote.  My joeboy smelled the skin
  `Sure.  I was crazy.  Figured I'd try to cut it.  Hit the first
  `And you went back?'
  `Tessier, yeah.'
neuroelectronic void of the matrix.  `Tessier-Ashpool, Dixie?'
of the Eastern Seaboard Fission Authority, into the infinite
  Case chewed his lower lip and gazed out across the plateaus
its Rio mainframe.'
  `It was on the Turing Registry.  AI.  Frog company owned
  `Yeah?'
look it up.'
thing like that.  Anyway, I jacked out and told my computer to
So what else was it?  The military down there don't have any-
  `How'd I know?  Jesus.  It was the densest ice I'd ever seen. 
  `How'd you know it was an AI?'
  `White cube.'
  `What did it look like, the visual?'
and made a pass.'
this one cube, maybe three levels higher up.  Jacked up there
larkin'~ around, you know?  And then I started picking up on
tionals, Government of Brazil lit up like a Christmas tree.  Just
high, out by Rio heavy commerce sector.  Big biz, multina-
  `Sure.  I flatlined.  First time.  I was larkin'~, jacked up real
  `You ever try to crack an AI?'
  `Yeah.'
  `Dixie?'
  He jacked in.
circle.  He watched the line extend itself, generating a new dot.
tug's path was a line of red dots, Freeside a segmented green
shoulder to the central screen and saw a docking display: the
strands of imitation seaweed.  He glanced past Maelcum's
semirigid globs and streamers of translucent caulk, like clumsy
gaskets around the airlock in the bow were festooned with
overspray off the screens and readouts with a razor blade.  The
Maelcum's pilot gear a hot tropical pink, scraping most of the
laying wordy decals in Cyrillic script.  Someone had sprayed
and Black Star Liners, the reds and greens and yellows over-
tangular thing daubed with Rastafarian symbols, Lions of Zion
together around an enormous old Russian air scrubber, a rec-
  He adjusted the trodes.  _Marcus Garvey_ had been thrown
module along with a very high-resolution Cray monitor.
His deck and the Hosaka had been mounted behind Maelcum's
  `I'm all doped,' he protested, but reached for the trodes. 
  `Now.  Anyway, talk to the Flatline about it.'
  `What?'
  `Do it now.'
  He shrugged again.
  `Not just 'cause you were scared, huh?'
He shrugged.
  `Coulda been anybody,' he lied.  `Just a chip...  I dunno.' 
hung up?'
  `Christ,' she said, `there goes a chance.  How come you
about the phones in the Hilton.
story along those lines, left over from Istanbul.'  He told her
  `Pal,' Case said, `sure.  No.  I haven't.  But I got a funny
you spent in Zion, plugged in with your lips moving?'
getting in touch with our pal from Berne?  Like all that time
  `Case,' she said, `have you maybe done anything toward
when I an'~ I come...'
he shook his locks, `at control, mon, an'~ I an'~ I come a Freeside
  `Sister, time, it be time, ya know wha mean?  Dread,' and
  `You guys ever think in hours?'
  `Don be long now, m'seh dat.'
asked from her web beside Maelcum's pilot module.
  `How long's it gonna take us to make Freeside?' Molly
no effect on his doctored system.
stimulants the manufacturer included to counter the scop had
polamine.  He'd taken the drug to blunt SAS nausea, but the
watched the Zionite's muscular back through a haze of sco-
for a navigational burn.  Splayed in his elastic g-web, Case
two in diameter, creaked and shuddered as Maelcum punched
  The tug _Marcus Garvey,_ a steel drum nine meters long and

        9



  `Maelcum will take you.  Jah love, sister.'
man figures out we're gone.'
  `Come on, Case,' Molly said.  `Let's get back before the
  `Measure twice, cut once,' said the other, softly.
time, it may be, we have been mistaken.'
regard for Babylon's law.  Our law is the word of Jah.  But this
have a certain involvement here with various traffics, and no
  `We rent you space,' said the Los Angeles Founder.  `We
what?'
  `That's it?' Case asked.  `You guys work for Armitage or
  An awkward silence filled the dome.
Rocker,_ to watch over _Garvey.'_
  `But we have decided to send Aerol as well, in _Babylon
pilot.'
  `Maelcum a rude boy,' said the other, `an'~ a righteous tug
to the Babylon port of Freeside.  And this we shall do.'
`We were told to send Maelcum with you, in his tug _Garvey_
serve as a tool of Final Days.'  His lined face was troubled. 
  `We were told to help you,' the other said, `that you might
  `What kinda message the voice have?' Case asked.
ter, on its darkest heart...'
  `Steppin'~ Razor.  An'~ you bring a scourge on Babylon, sis-
  `What was that you called me, old man?' Molly asked.
mon, I an'~ I know.  Multitude horde!'
  `Babylon,' broke in the other Founder, `mothers many de-
to --'
your banks and cooked up whatever it thought you'd like
intelligence.  The music it played you, it probably just tapped
  `Listen,' Case said, `that's an AI, you know?  Artificial
prophets...'
of its meaning.  If these are Final Days, we must expect false
  `No,' said the man from Los Angeles, `and we are uncertain
  `You ever hear this voice before?'
  `Thirty hours prior you dockin'~ Zion.'
  `When was this?' Case asked.
said we are to help you.'
  `The Mute talked to us,' the first Founder said.  `The Mute
  Case felt the skin crawl on his arms.
words.
  `Call 'em Winter Mute,' said the other, making it two
us a mighty dub.'
a voice, out of the babel of tongues, speaking to us.  It played
Case.  `We monitor many frequencies.  We listen always.  Came
  `Voices.'  The Founder from Los Angeles was staring at
ness, prophesyin'~ ruin unto Babylon...'
come, the Final Days...  Voices.  Voices cryin'~ inna wilder-
  The other Founder laughed, his head thrown back.  `Soon
smoky air.
  Molly extended her right hand and the blades flashed in the
pin'~ Razor.'
To lead the Tribes home.  Now my brother likens you to Step-
wool.  `Long time ago, up the gravity well and out of Babylon. 
locks were like a matted tree with branches the color of steel
  `I came from Los Angeles,' the old man said.  His dread-
  `How come you don't talk the patois?' Molly asked.
story.  We are glad you've come with Maelcum.'
  `That is a story we have, sister,' said the other, `a religion
ber.  `Like unto a whippin'~ stick.'
  `Steppin'~ Razor,' one said, as Molly drifted into the cham-
resinous smoke.
ered the hull of the spherical chamber.  The air was thick with
rainbow foliage, a lurid communal mural that completely cov-
sunlight.  They floated in the center of a painted jungle of
with calcium loss, looked fragile in the harsh glare of reflected
years outside the embrace of gravity.  Their brown legs, brittle
the accelerated aging that overtakes men who spend too many
  The two surviving Founders of Zion were old men, old with

  `Don'~ stan'~ talkin'~, sister.  Come.'
  `You know how fast I can cut you, friend?'
visit th'~ Founders.'
  `Make it special dark, now,' the man said.  `Come.  I an'~ I
whispered.
  `We open that hatch, the light'll wake bossman,' Case
  `Founders, mon.  Elders of Zion, ya know...'
  `What brothers?'
converse wi'~ you an'~ cowboy.'
call 'em Steppin'~ Razor.  I Maelcum, sister.  Brothers wan'~
  `You th'~ one, mon,' said a Zion voice.  `Cateye, call 'em,
  `Shut up.'
plastic.  `Wha...?'
  Case rolled over and put his head through the rent in the
  `Don't you move, friend.'
open.
yellow plastic before he'd had time to realize she'd slashed it
speed of it stunned him.  She was up and through the sheet of
tension.  He lay there confused.  When she moved, the sheer
of Molly crouched beside him on the foam.  He could feel her
  Case woke, late into the sleeping period, and became aware

  `Sorry,' Riviera said, and the sores flickered and vanished.
eyes.
  Armitage paused, regarded them all with his cold empty
Molly laughed.
dozen bright pustules rose on his nose, cheeks, and chin.  Even
  While Armitage recited the names of Freeside avenues, a
  Riviera rolled his eyes.
Verne.'
of the model.  `Desiderata Street here.  This is the Rue Jules
  `Learn the streets,' Armitage said, returning to the center
robe, you see.'
  `Details available?' Riviera asked.  `I need to plan a ward-
and the ninja.
remembering the Finn's story: Smith, Jimmy, the talking head,
  Case stared at the blankness that represented Straylight,
see that Molly gets in.'
out.  You'll arrange yourself an invitation.  Once you're in, you
  `Peter,' Armitage said, `you're going to be the first to find
finger.  Armitage slapped at them as if they were gnats.
neck.  Four tiny figures glittered, near the tip of Armitage's
  `What's inside, boss?'  Riviera leaned forward, craning his
ity.'
kinked.  There's a single entrance, here, dead center.  Zero grav-
Straylight.  Steep climb out of gravity and every approach is
the final segment of the spindle was empty.  `This is the Villa
end does.'  The interior detail of the hologram ended here, and
  Armitage walked to the opposite end of the projection.  `This
  Riviera giggled.
  `Shit,' Molly said, `I'm an avid cyclist.'
utter seriousness.
  `This end doesn't concern us,' Armitage said with his usual
tires, get up over a hundred kilos an hour.'
  `They race bicycles,' Molly said.  `Low grav, high-traction
  `A what?'  Case leaned forward.
here.'  He pointed.
lower the gravity.  Sports up there.  There's velodrome ring
more rocky, but it's an easy climb.  Higher you climb, the
  `Mountain effect, as it narrows.  Ground seems to get higher,
  `We can see that fine,' Molly said.
Narrows at the ends.'
are lakes.'  He walked to one end of the model.  `Big cigar. 
property, big shops along here.'  His hand moved.  `Blue areas
the skeletal representation and pointed.  `Hotels, strata-title
three meters from tip to tip.  `Casinos here.'  He reached into
Braun hologram projector.  The image shivered into focus, nearly
  `Freeside,' Armitage said, touching the panel on the little

  `I hadda give it up.'
  `Get high yourself, Case?'
  `Must be nice,' Case said, getting up.
short-sleeved white cotton shirt.
  `Pedestrian,' Riviera sneered, and laughed, putting on a
  `I'd just use derms,' Case said.
it, isn't it?'
  The bright eyes met his.  `Of course it does.  That's part of
  `Doesn't hurt?'
needle.'
the vein, so I never have to worry about the condition of the
distant now, cheeks flushed.  `I've a membrane set in, just over
tubing from his arm.  `Yes.  It's more fun.'  He smiled, his eyes
  Riviera loosened and removed the elastic length of surgical
things.  You always make it into a little show?'
  `Yeah,' Case said.  `I heard that about lots of different
better, he kept it for himself.'  You know the expression, Case?'
milky plastic syringe in his left hand.  ``If God made anything
  Then the snake and the scorpion were gone, and he held a
relaxed, and Riviera sighed slowly as the injection hit him.
and sank into the skin above a bulging vein.  The coral snake
viera made a soft hissing sound.  The sting came up, quivered,
reached the inner elbow, it halted and seemed to vibrate.  Ri-
arm its feet tracking the faint dark telltales of veins.  When it
The scorpion swayed its brownish claws and scurried up his
scorpion poised in the center of his upturned palm.  `Come.' 
  `Come then,' the man said caressingly to the pale waxy
tightening around Riviera's arm.
was finger-thick and banded black and scarlet, slowly contract,
millimeters behind his elbow.  Case watched the snake, which
snake, its eyes like ruby neon, was coiled tightly a few
tended straight out, level with his shoulder.  A jewel-scaled
  Riviera sat motionless on his foam pad, his right arm ex-

kicking off down the corridor.
  `Babylon,' Aerol said, sadly, handing him the trodes and
Case jacked him back out.  `What did you see, man?'
He closed his eyes.  Case hit the power stud.  Aerol shuddered. 
  He took the band, put it on, and Case adjusted the trodes. 
  `Try it,' Case said.
gae.  He blinked mildly and grinned.
other held a transparent waterbag bulging with blue-green al-
the steel wall and he caught a girder with his free hand.  The
  Aerol executed a slow-motion tumble.  His bare feet struck
Wanna show you this thing.'  He held out the trodes.
for a practice run in the freefall corridor.  `Come here, man. 
  `Hey, Aerol,' Case called, an hour later, as he prepared
like that.
when they were talking, hands on your shoulder.  He didn't
  Case nodded dubiously.  The Zionites always touched you
It's not like bullshit, more like poetry.  Get it?'
know?  Aerol tells you it happened, well, it happened to _him._ 
`They don't make much of a difference between states, you
  `It's the ganja,' Molly said, when Case told her the story. 
of brown forehead and smiled.
you finga.'  He rubbed his palm across an unscarred expanse
forest of hydroponic ganja.  `Ver'~ small baby, mon, no long'~
baby who had burst from his forehead and scampered into a
  Aerol, with no particular provocation, related the tale of the
  Case didn't understand the Zionites.

thing.'
  `This scam of yours, when it's over, you erase this goddam
  `What's that, Dix?'
cold down Case's spine.  `Do me a favor, boy.'
it came through as something else, not laughter, but a stab of
says, it's the _other_ goddam thumb.'  When the construct laughed,
thumb's itchin'~, he says.  So I told him, scratch it.  McCoy, he
he's tossin'~ all night.  Elroy, I said, what's eatin'~ you?  Goddam
was frostbit.  Medics came by and they cut it off.  Month later
  `Had me this buddy in the Russian camp, Siberia, his thumb
  `How's that?'
  `What bothers me is, nothin'~ does.'
  `Bother you?'
  `It doesn't.'
  `How's it feel?'
figure that one.'
  `I'm dead, Case.  Got enough time in on this Hosaka to
  `How you doing, Dixie?'
data.
the Eastern Seaboard Fission Authority's Aztec pyramid of
jacked in, he opened his eyes to the familiar configuration of
lationship with the deck's physical whereabouts.  When Case
  Cyberspace, as the deck presented it, had no particular re-

  `No.  Practice, Case.  Now.  Up in the corridor...'
  `So I do the run from here?'
going to learn to work with it.'
still got SAS.  You won't have time for it to wear off.  You're
  `Your adrenaline levels are higher,' Armitage said.  `You've
`I jack in and I'm not here.  It's all the same.'
ability to operate in the matrix.  `Don't sweat it,' Case argued,
  Armitage seemed to think that zero-g would affect Case's
disassembled parts of her fletcher.  `Leave him be.'
Armitage.  `He's stoned,' Molly said, looking up from the
viera.'  The ring continued to revolve.  He'd gone back and told
geometric forms, cubes, spheres, and pyramids.  `Hey, Ri-
asleep, his head orbited by a revolving halo of small white
like a cat on a thin pad of temperfoam, naked, apparently
maze to call Riviera out for a meal.  He'd found him curled
hours after their arrival, Armitage had sent him into the yellow
posed to be doing, but Case didn't feel like asking.  A few
and the Villa Straylight.  It was unclear what Riviera was sup-
themselves to working in it.  He would brief them on Freeside
Case would practice in zero gravity, he said, and acclimatize
  Armitage announced an eighty-hour stay in Zion.  Molly and

  Case's mouth flooded with saliva; he shook his head.
`Maybe you wan'~ eat somethin'~.'
foam-bundled Hosaka terminal along the central corridor. 
  `You ver'~ pale, mon,' Aerol said, as they were guiding the
him get it in from the cargo bay.'
  `It's your deck,' Armitage said, `and the other gear.  Help
cowboy mon.'
  `Yo,' Aerol said, from the hatch, `you wan'~ come wi'~ me,
between them.
  `Just the harmless clown, right, Riviera?'  Molly stepped
palms, which suddenly doubled.  Four arms, four hands.
to help you, but I'm no good with my hands.'  He held up his
  `Good,' Riviera said, `you can laugh.  I would have tried
  Case laughed.
`In the head,' Riviera said, and smiled.
out, trailing impossible bubbles.  It glided past Case's cheek. 
  The man opened his mouth to speak.  A small trout swam
viera.
  `Where were you when it needed doing?' Case asked Ri-
certain in the partial gravity.
hatch and nodding at the maze of sheets.  Riviera followed, less
  `Good,' Armitage said, gliding loose-kneed through the
humanity, and ganja.
was light but still awkward.  Zion smelled of cooked vegetables,
community.  Case heaved at one of the yellow sheets; the thing
digitalized pop; it was worship, Molly said, and a sense of
called dub, a sensuous mosaic cooked from vast libraries of
of the music that pulsed constantly through the cluster.  It was
yellow plastic.  As they worked, Case gradually became aware
scheme of Molly's, they hung them with battered sheets of
  When they'd strung the cables, according to some complex
dom.
noticed steel rings welded on every surface, seemingly at ran-
this up.'  He looked around the wide, featureless space and
elastic cable.  `Gotta play house,' she said.  `You help me string
him on the shoulder.  He rolled over and saw a fat bundle of
on the deck, on his stomach, arms spread.  Something struck
  `Up,' Molly said, `you gonna kiss it next?'  Case lay flat
a pocket of air.
Case embraced the weak gravity like a drowning man finding
  Somehow, the end of the tunnel had become its bottom. 
gold incisors.
  `You be fine, mon,' Aerol said, his grin bracketed with
  Case's stomach churned.
that's like you're climbing down into gravity.  Got it?'
you're climbing backward, right?  You're going toward the hull,
into a narrow hatchway overhead.  `Grab the rungs.  Make like
wave of SAS vertigo.  `Here,' Molly said, shoving his legs
lost track of Armitage and Riviera in the wake of a second
gotiate a freefall corridor into the core of a smaller torus.  He'd
  Molly and a skinny Zionite called Aerol helped Case ne-
symbols and the initials of welders.
regular, discolored plates laser-scrawled with Rastafarian
minded Case of the patchwork tenements of Istanbul, the ir-
Seen from the bubble of the taxi, Zion's makeshift hull re-
rotational gravity was established in the colony's central torus. 
ing.  They'd suffered calcium loss and heart shrinkage before
return, who'd turned their backs on the well and started build-
  Zion had been founded by five workers who'd refused to

you smoke your cigarettes there.'
  `You'll see.  It's an okay place by me.  Anyway, they'll let
  `What's that mean?'
  `Dreads.  Rastas.  Colony's about thirty years old now.'
  `How's that?'
you ask me.'
herself from the embrace of the foam.  `Funny choice of venue,
touched the release plate on her harness and began to free
know?  We're getting this taxi out to Zion, Zion cluster.'  She
  `No, we got the boss's usual little kink in the plans, you
no smoking on shuttle flights.
shirt pocket to dance ten centimeters from his nose.  There was
of Yeheyuan tobacco that had drifted gracefully up out of his
  `We transfer to Freeside now?' he asked, eyeing a shred
at _JAL_'s terminal cluster.
sleep.  The steward woke him as they were preparing to dock
scription, but it passed quickly enough and he was able to
  Space adaptation syndrome was worse than Molly's de-

great soft hand with bones of ancient stone.
  Twenty minutes, then gravity came down on him like a
to the piped koto music and waited.
like new clothes and chewing gum and exhaustion.  He listened
big airplane, one that flew very high.  It smelled like an airplane,
  He closed his eyes and told himself the shuttle was only a
window bore an Arabic slogan in red spraybomb.
graceful blast-deflectors of wet concrete.  The one nearest the
the old Orly terminals, but the shuttle pad was screened by
  Case turned his head and tried to make out the outline of
set of trodes from his red plastic apron.
adrenaline.'  The steward moved on to Riviera, taking a new
like you'll be getting signals to run like hell, and a lot of
your inner ear'll go nuts for a while.  Kicks in your flight reflex,
  `It's not the same.  Your heartbeat'll speed up in zero-g, and
  `Airsick?  No way.'
  `Hope you don't get SAS,' she said.
attaching readout trodes to his wrist and left ear.
  `Nah.  Never travel much, just for biz.'  The steward was
shuttle.
his way back into the deep temperfoam couch on the _JAL_
  `You been up, haven't you?' Molly asked, as he squirmed

  Molly turned away, her lenses reflected in the dark window.
stantly asleep.
  Peter Riviera smiled sweetly, closed his eyes, and fell in-
with bright chrome.
black rose, its petals sheened like leather, the black stem thorned
  Case turned back, in time to catch the briefest flash of a
anger.  `That's right, Peter.  Don't.'
smooth face was calm, the blue eyes alert, but there was no
  Case turned automatically to check Armitage's reaction.  The
at all.  I _like_ that.'
me, I'll hurt you real bad.  I can do it without damaging you
`No, baby.  No games.  You play that subliminal shit around
  Molly leaned across him and slapped Riviera's face, once. 
giant human sperm in the depths of his bourbon and water.
reaching for his drink, he caught the flicker of a thing like a
Case saw the jewel-glow of a Greek island town.  And once,
mitage on the aisle.  Once, as the plane banked over water,
Molly in the window seat, Case beside her, Riviera and Ar-
  On the _THY_ liner to Paris, they sat together in First Class,

Ashpool.
and most carefully refined, the industrial clan of Tessier and
dens of Babylon, an orbital Geneva and home to a family inbred
der town and spa.  Freeside is Las Vegas and the hanging gar-
brothel and banking nexus, pleasure dome and free port, bor-
to the tourists who shuttle up and down the well.  Freeside is
  Freeside.  Freeside is many things, not all of them evident
as red solid, a massive rectangle dominating your screen.
change of data in the L-5 archipelago.  One segment clicks in
  Call up a graphics display that grossly simplifies the ex-
out from gravity's steep well like an oilslick.
  The islands.  Torus, spindle, cluster.  Human DNA spreading
  Archipelago.

        8


        MIDNIGHT IN THE RUE JULES VERNE
        PART THREE



but only once, as he passed.
had to walk the length of the ranked phones.  Each rang in turn,
  On his way back to the lobby, his cigarettes forgotten, he
  He hung up.
  `Don't you want to talk, Case?'
  It was a chip voice.
  `Wintermute, Case.  It's time we talk.'
out of sight across Hilton carpeting.
  A fifty-lirasi coin fell from his hand, bounced, and rolled
  `Hello, Case.'
orbital link, and then a sound like wind.
  Faint harmonics, tiny inaudible voices rattling across some
  `Yeah?'
  Automatically, he picked it up.
ronism of the process.  The phone nearest him rang.
dull alloy coins one after another, vaguely amused by the anach-
  He fumbled through a pocketful of lirasi, slotting the small
pay phones.
a vending console in a narrow alcove, at the end of a rank of
talking with Armitage or Riviera.  He left the lobby and located
  There were cigarettes in the gift shop, but he didn't relish
back up her nose and turned away.
lady,' he said to the woman, who promptly slid the sunglasses
if there was a smoking section on the _JAL_ shuttle.  `See ya,
dered his bag.  He needed cigarettes for the flight.  He wondered
glasses to stare at him.  He smiled broadly, stood, and shoul-
matron in a white leather tuxedo jacket lowered her Porsche
now, asshole,' he said to the Hilton lobby.  A graying Italian
run.  He looked up at Riviera again.  `I bet you're stoned right
  Case checked his watch.  Molly was due back from her drug
their team.
the Finn's examination, and pressured by Armitage into joining
before, drugged with a toxin-flechette, abducted, subjected to
  Riviera didn't act like a man who'd been attacked the night
sculpture.
watched the white hands play over the imitation fragments of
his smile.  His teeth were small, even, and very white.  Case
of brutality offset the delicacy of his jaw and the quickness of
seemed to have been broken and clumsily reset.  The suggestion
distant.  His nose, which might have been too nicely sculpted,
The man's forehead was high and smooth, gray eyes calm and
nothing like Armitage's blandly handsome blend of pop faces. 
the features were the work of a Chiba surgeon.  A subtle job,
viera turned and smiled.  He was very beautiful; Case assumed
shop too quickly, too obviously, to stand beside Riviera.  Ri-
ding politely to Armitage.  Armitage crossed the floor of the
  Three smiling Japanese tourists bustled into the shop, nod-
of old Bonn.
a product of the rubble rings that fringe the radioactive core
stateless and traveled under a forged Dutch passport.  He was
been difficult to guess his age.  She also said he was legally
centless and fluid.  Molly said he was thirty, but it would have
  Riviera was slender, blond, soft-voiced, his English ac-
stood in the shop's entrance.
mitage, his trenchcoat draped over his shoulders like a cape,
bogus Byzantine fragments in the glass-walled gift shop.  Ar-
the lobby of the Istanbul Hilton and watched Riviera browse
ilky airport.  Transfer at Paris to the _JAL_ shuttle.  Case sat in
  The four of them were booked on a _THY_ flight out of Yes-

  FREESIDE -- WHY WAIT?
Turkish.
chures.  It was expensively printed, in French, English, and
  When Armitage was gone, he picked up one of the bro-
  Case kept his face very still and forced himself to nod.
sacs are starting to show wear, but you don't know how much.'
to prod Case in the chest.  `Don't get too smart.  Those little
insect's antenna.  His gold bracelet clinked as he reached out
smiled, a smile that meant as much as the twitch of some
  `Riviera's fine.  The Finn is on his way home.'  Armitage
  `Did Riviera check out okay?  Where's the Finn?'
table and stood.
`Here.  Read the brochure.'  He put something on the coffee
  `They don't have climate, just weather,' Armitage said. 
down into the street.  `What kind of climate?'
  `Where to now?' he asked, walking past the man to stare
dren.  The blankness he found in Armitage was something else.
Wage had had vices, lovers.  Even, it had been rumored, chil-
level tended to submerge their personalities, he knew.  But
He thought of Wage, back in Chiba.  Operators above a certain
called Corto behind the pale blue eyes and the tanned mask. 
  `Time to pack,' he said, and Case tried to find the man
  Armitage was waiting in their room at the Hilton.

`So I'll go to Ali the dealer and stock up.  You betcha.'
better now, anyway, you aren't so goddam skinny.'  She smiled. 
it looks like he can't work without that special taste.  I like you
  She laughed.  `He's not dying on the wire, sweetheart.  And
  `Buy him some drugs?  How's he rate?'
bazaar and buy him some drugs...'
his stuff from that apartment in Fener, gotta go back to the
like breakfast.  I gotta busy night again, tonight.  Gotta collect
  `Never mind.  Let's go back to Beyoglu and find something
  `What's that mean?'
turned and smiled, and it was very cold.
buy myself some special insurance on that Peter.'  Then she
the sluggish fish, her face sour.  `I think I'm going to have to
human nature, I guess.'  She stared at the white flowers and
a couple of million.  Which anyway says something good about
suit.  The profile said it was a very rare type, estimated one in
sure she turned political.  He's got a personality like a Modern's
pockets.  `Because if he found one he really wanted, he'd make
It kept Terzi in dissidents.'  She thrust her hands into her jacket
eighteen in three years.  All women age twenty to twenty-five. 
Terzi let him watch, when the cattle prods came out.  He's done
three years, shopping politicals to the secret police.  Probably
easy for Terzi to set him up for us, because he's been here
to love him first.  Maybe he loves them, too.  That's why it was
the object of desire.  That's what the file says.  And they have
Judas.  Can't get off sexually unless he knows he's betraying
as look at him.  I saw his profile.  He's a kind of compulsive
  She spat into the pond.  `God knows.  I'd as soon kill him
to change the subject.
  `What do we want out of that Riviera?' he asked, hoping
  `Ask the Flatline.'
  `Can't be done.'
  `Try.'
  `I couldn't get near it,' he said.  `You're dreaming.'
Wintermute.'
but not why.  I wanna know why.  I want you to go and talk to
see the rock that hit the center.  We know something's there,
to me.  We're out where the little waves are too broad, we can't
  `That's Wintermute,' she said.  `This deal's real big, looks
pebble in and watched the ripples spread.
the stems of some white aquatic flower.  She kicked a loose
  They came to a broad rectangular pond where carp nuzzled
  `Jockeys all the same,' she said.  `No imagination.'
it just isn't part of the trip.'
Turing cops, and that's bad heat.'  He looked at her.  `I dunno,
where ice all comes from, you know?  And then there's the
military, the bright ones, and we can't crack the ice.  That's
  `Well,' he said, `for starts, they're rare.  Most of them are
out fascinated with those things?'
  `Look, you're a cowboy.  How come you aren't just flat- 
Turing heat is willing to let 'em get.'
a fortune anyway.  The real smart ones are as smart as the
  `Depends.  Some aren't much smarter than dogs.  Pets.  Cost
  `Just thinking out loud...  How smart's an AI, Case?'
  `I don't get it,' Case said.
just in his name, right?'
  `Maybe he doesn't know about it,' she said.  `Maybe it's
  `So why's he got that stash in London?  Nostalgia?'
Wintermute.'
something clicks and he goes into high gear and wheels for
alone.  But not Armitage.  Sits and stares at the wall, man.  Then
guy like that, you figure there's something he does when he's
any life going, in private.  Not as far as I can tell.  You see a
they walked on.  `It figures.  You know, the guy doesn't have
  `Yeah.  Built him up from go.  Yeah...'  She turned and
he hit the ward, so maybe Wintermute just...'
before?  I mean, he wasn't anybody in particular, by the time
  `Thing is,' he said, `do you think he knows he was Corto,
  She nodded.
  `I figure Wintermute,' Case said.
him out of it?  In that French hospital?'
flank of an iron doe.  `You figure the little computer pulled
that Screaming Fist.  Looked it up.'  She stroked the rusted
  `Well, I knew there wasn't anybody name of Armitage in
the Corto story.
got something, but I don't know what it means.'  He told her
  `I did that job for you,' Case said, `the one in London I
birds began to sing.
money Armitage was offering.'  In the wet trees around them,
police.  Torturer.  Real easy to buy out, too, with the kind of
  `That Terzi, he's grade-A scum,' she said.  `He's the secret
in the Balkans.
of cold octagonal flagstones.  Winter was waiting, somewhere
grass made stiff by an early frost.  They walked beside a path
walked beside her, watching the toes of her boots crunch unkept
  Black iron deer rusted in the gardens of the Seraglio.  Case
the goddam thing, 'cause it's an infidel relic.'
the Christians about a million years ago, and they never dust
on the side so the Christians could kiss it for luck.  Got it off
  `Nah.  Dead.  Got it inside this brass hand thing, little hatch
  `Like in a support vat?'
Baptist...'
there, big diamonds, swords, the left hand of John the
museum.  Kinda like Finn's shop, all this stuff just jumbled in
getting out stretching.  `Kept a lotta women there.  Now it's a
  `It was sort of a private whorehouse for the King,' she said,
styles that was Topkapi.
Seraglio.  He stared dully at the baroque conglomeration of
parked itself on the fringes of the gardens that surround the
  `What is this thing?' he asked Molly, as the Mercedes
reminded Case vaguely of Paris.
mazes of deserted back streets, run-down apartment houses that
woke.  They passed the Beyoglu _tunel_ terminal and sped past
  Now the Mercedes whispered through Istanbul as the city
ground away down the alley and swung clumsily into the street.
said to the white face behind the tinted window.  The Citroen
slammed the door.  `Run into you again and I'll kill you,' she
we're through with you anyway.'  She shoved him in and
as soon as he stepped out.'  Terzibashjian glared at her.  `So
door for him.  `You shoulda hung back.  I had him in my sights
  `You're an asshole,' Molly told the man, opening the ear
who seemed on the verge of fainting.
Minutes later, a dusty Citroen had arrived for the Armenian,
Mahmut had taken Riviera, still unconscious, from the alley. 
to take them to Topkapi.  The Finn and an enormous Turk named
  With the city drenched in predawn blue, she told the Mercedes

of his middle finger was missing.
  Terzibashjian made a whining sound.  Case saw that most
she said.  `Nice gun.'
  Molly bent and picked something up.  A pistol.  `A Nambu,'
he wakes up, make sure Armitage is getting his money's worth.'
help 'em get his ass outa here.  I gotta scan all that gear before
the hamburger that got tossed out of sight.  Real cute.  Well,
his trousers.  `You were watching the horror-show, right?  Not
ing loudly as he stood up, brushing ineffectually at the legs of
  `Little prick nearly made it,' the Finn said, his knees crack-
good place.'
`Call in Mahmut.  We must get him out of here.  This is not a
  `Use the radio,' the Armenian said, through gritted teeth. 
fletcher in her hand.
  Molly stepped out of the shadows, all in black, with her
whole again, unbloodied, lay at his feet.
blood drip from a wound in his left hand.  The blond man,
very white in the glare.  He held his left wrist and watched
ows.  Terzibashjian was leaning against a steel door, his face
  Then the light returned, bobbing now, searching the shad-
His ears rang.
matched afterimages of muzzle-flash, monster, and white beam. 
  The light from the rooftop vanished, leaving him with mis-
crouch.
whizzed past Case's head; the Finn jerked him down into a
from the dark beyond the circle of light.  Fragments of rock
a window.  He went through it.  Into the muzzle-flash of a pistol
the thing, his arms spread like a man attempting to dive through
  Terzibashjian said something in Greek or Turkish and rushed
a step, the mouth seeming to scan for them as it moved.
chrome.  It kicked the rags of clothing and flesh aside and took
with a seething growth of hairs or bristles, glittering like black
if it was a mouth, was circular, conical, shallow, and lined
was eyeless, the skin gleaming a wet intestinal pink.  The mouth,
to face them, and Case saw that it had a head, but no neck.  It
on two legs, and seemed to be headless.  Then it swung slowly
bloody ruin that had been Riviera.  It was two meters tall, stood
seemed to pull itself up out of the pavement, through the inert,
rope-tendoned arms flexed grayish-pink in the glare.  The thing
splashing the wall and doorway.  A pair of impossibly long,
  The back of the fallen man's jacket heaved and burst, blood
  The floodlight never wavered.
white and pathetic.
face down, blond hair pale against the old stone, his limp hands
man crumpled.  Case thought someone had shot him; he lay
door in a perfect circle.  Bright eyes darted left, right, and the
market, pinned the slender figure beside the ancient wooden
light, directed from the rooftop of the building opposite the
  `Now,' Terzibashjian said, and a brilliant beam of white
the narrow place in darkness.  Case shivered.
A figure stepped out and the door grated shut again, leaving
alley, a wedge of yellow light fell across wet cobbles, widened. 
  Wood grated on stone or concrete.  Ten meters down the
loudly.
sweetmeat,' the Finn said.  `Quiet,' said Terzibashjian, too
`Can't see shit,' he whispered to the Finn.  `That's okay for
of a century's dripping gasoline, absorbed by ancient limestone. 
blocks of dark stone.  The pavement was uneven and smelled
  The alley was an old place, too old, the walls cut from

to purchase his mixture from Ali.  Your woman is close.  Come.'
said, `he is moving.  Each night he rides the _tunel_ to the bazaar
door.  The Armenian was muttering to his Sanyo.  `Come,' he
  Case bought a pack of Yeheyuans from a vendor by the
of tea.
ancing steel trays with bottles of Turk-Tuborg and tiny glasses
in soiled white coats dodged between the crowded tables, bal-
had been in continuous operation for centuries.  Skinny boys
of the market, a low-ceilinged room that looked as though it
they passed.  Terzibashjian led them into a cafe near the core
  The animal's brown glass eyes seemed to follow them as
code 'em up from the DNA, but they always croak.'
three years after the pandemic.  There's Arabs still trying to
one in Maryland once,' the Finn said, `and that was a good
worn black and hairless by decades of passing hands.  `Saw
place that sold birds and monkeys.  The thing's legs had been
It was displayed on a sort of pedestal, near the entrance to a
  Case glanced at the embalmed animal and shook his head. 
that.'  He pointed.  `It's a horse, man.  You ever see a horse?'
  `Hey, Christ,' the Finn said, taking Case's arm, `looka
suspended ads writhed and flickered.
green-painted ironwork out of the age of steam.  A thousand
a broad concourse, beneath soot-stained sheets of plastic and
the sense of enclosure.  They walked with the Armenian along
ably, as though he were comforted by the crowd density and
  Once they entered the bazaar, the Finn brightened notice-

`we'll get the poor fucker a new pancreas or something.'
  `Never mind,' Case said, turning up the collar of his jacket,
Case.'
speedball artist.  Funny class of people you're mixing with,
  `Demerol they used to call that,' said the Finn.  `He's a
went back to the conversation he was having with the Sanyo.
  `A mixture of cocaine and meperidine, yes.'  The Armenian
Jersey, about this Riviera being wired?'
recross the bulletproof Lexan.  `What's that you said before,
  `Drugs,' Case said, watching the car's wipers cross and
city's central market for spices, software, perfumes, drugs...'
an earlier bazaar erected by Sultan Hatice in 1660.  This is the
the Egyptian bazaar,' the car said, `was erected on the site of
smoothly around a corner.  `The spice bazaar, sometimes called
The transceiver answered in French.  The Mercedes swung
salad of Greek, French, Turkish, isolated fragments of English. 
shave.  He began to whisper to a Sanyo transceiver in a strange
  The Armenian sat back, leaving a metallic edge of after-
  `That's okay,' Case said.  `Means shut up.'
  `I do not understand this idiom.'
a bow tie if you looked at her cross-eyed.'
  The Finn snorted.  `She'd have you wearing your balls for
women are still women.  This one...'
leaned forward between the ultrasuede buckets.  `In Turkey,
  `You have told this to your woman friend?'  Terzibashjian
fry a retina over easy.'
imagines, you see.  I figure he could narrow it to a pulse and
seen the schematics on the guy's silicon.  Very flash.  What he
  ``What you see is what you get,' yeah,' the Finn said.  `I
poised beside a brake lever...'
the cyclist in a hospital, the story is always the same.  A scorpion
street and seen a dozen cycles fall, near him, in a day.  Find
loon-tired dray stacked with hides.  `I have followed him in the
one is most talented.'  The Mercedes swerved avoiding a bal-
is how you say it?  Anyone might buy these implants, but this
  `In Chiba City.  He has no left lung.  The other is boosted,
them, `where'd this guy get his stuff installed?'
  `Hey, Jersey,' Case said to the Armenian, who sat behind
kebab gravy and fried egg on the lapels of the new suit.
to resemble a worn carbon ribbon.  There were medallions of
  `Place sucks,' the Finn said.  His black silk tie was starting
  `Homesick?' Case asked.
Headless marble statues were stacked like firewood.
motive atop rust-stained, broken lengths of fluted marble. 
was lined with miniature scrapyards.  Case saw a gutted loco-
was looking in the wrong direction.  The right side of the street
  Beside Case, the Finn made an appreciative noise, but he
maze of rainy streets, `is Kapali Carsi, the grand bazaar.'
  `On our left,' said the Mercedes, as it steered through a

subliminals.'  He made the word four careful syllables.
  Terzibashjian nodded.  `Worst is how you say in _Ingiliz,_ the
her thigh, `I want to know exactly what he can do.'
  `I want to know about the implants,' she said, massaging
metallic aftershave.
agement has grown nervous.'  He smiled.  He smelled of some
shown a certain interest in these shows.  The Yenishehir man-
style _turistik,_ but it has been arranged that the police have
recently at the Yenishehir Palas Oteli, a modern place in the
have his _tunel_ route, nightly to the bazaar.  He performs most
  `He is living in Fener, at Kchk Glhane Djaddesi 14.  I
get your ass out of here.'  She put the gun away.
  `I call it a bad morning.  Now tell us about your man and
  `Please.  You call this in _Ingiliz_ making me very tight...'
won't feel it for months.'
of them, or maybe you get a cancer.  One dart, shitface.  You
  She extended the gun.  `Maybe you get the explosives, lots
thimble frozen centimeters from his lips.
  `Very easy, please,' Terzibashjian said, his white china
the fletcher.  Case hadn't known she had it.
hand slid lazily into the front of her jacket and came out with
her lips.  `I know about you.  Stool for the military, right?'  Her
she said, her mouth full.  She chewed, swallowed, and licked
  Molly bit one of the pastries in half.  `It's my show, Jack,'
modifications.'
care.  In Turkey there is disapproval of women who sport such
into mirror...  You particularly,' he said to her, `must take
better, this way, yes?  Else we make the _tunel_ infinity, mirror
the shade of his very short military-cut hair.  He smiled.  `It is
the silver glasses.  His eyes were a dark brown that matched
He seemed to stare pointedly at Molly, but at last he removed
  `We must, as you say in _Ingiliz,_ take this one very easy.' 
black coffee and three sticky, straw-colored Oriental sweets.
Hilton tray arranged with three tiny, fragrant cups of thick
mistook it for some kind of t-shirt.  He arrived with a black
collar, revealing a mat of dark hair so dense that Case at first
gold-framed, mirrored glasses.  His white shirt was open at the
  Terzibashjian proved to be a young man in a gray suit and
up.'
menian.  That's the eye Armitage has had on Riviera.  Help me
  `You got an ear for language, Case.  Bet you're part Ar-
  `We got a Jersey Bastion coming up.'
  `I've been awake an hour already.'  The mirrors turned.
  `Wake up, baby,' Case said.  `Biz.'
bleated softly.  Armitage was gone.
about fifteen minutes.  His name is Terzibashjian.'  The phone
  `Get dressed, Case.  Get her up.  You'll have a caller in
  `You think so?'
  `You know as much as you need to.  Maybe more.'
  Silence on the line.  Case bit his lip.
little more about what I'm doing.'
time we have a little talk.  I think I work better if I know a
  `I'm just.  Lady's still under.  Listen, boss, I think it's maybe
twice.  `Glad you're up,' Armitage said.
  He had the phone in his hand before it had a chance to ring
part of the room's light fixture.
their loft, beside the transdermal inducer.  Her glasses reflected
struck him.  She'd left the micropore cast on the bedslab in
  He glanced back at the bed, at Molly, and her paleness
street.
in rumpled green uniforms.  They entered the hotel across the
conversion, as it disgorged five sullen-looking Turkish officers
watched a dull black Citroen sedan, a primitive hydrogen-cell
enjoyed a certain prestige here.  It was a sluggish country.  He
sheets of clear plastic, evidence that the written word still
taken refuge in doorways, their old voiceprinters wrapped in
across the street.  It was still raining.  A few letter-writers had
almost expecting to see Tokyo Bay.  There was another hotel
first seen Armitage.  He went to the window, in the morning,
  Their room might have been the one in Chiba where he'd

followed her with both bags.
in the direction of the elevators.  `Come on, cowboy.'  Case
  `Yeah,' she said, `I know who that is.'  She jerked her head
of jive.  The Finn watched, then nodded.
  Molly's fingers moved in the shadow of her jacket, a flicker
  The Finn winced.  `Observe the protocol.  Ask the boss.'
  `How about my deck?' Case asked.
  `I gotta check out some guy's implants,' the Finn said.
around a finger.  `You here as valet or what?'
Just pretend it's Brooklyn or something.'  She twirled the key
  `You get agoraphobic, they take you out from under a dome. 
town sucks.'
registered already.  Honcho's upstairs.'  He looked around.  `This
He handed her a magnetic key with a round yellow tag.  `You're
  The Finn's upper lips drew back.  `Not enough, sweetmeat.' 
get for wearing that suit, huh?'
lowered her bag beside the armchair.  `Bet not as much as you
  `How much you get paid to come over here, Finn?'  She
  They crossed the lobby.
  `Christ,' Molly said.  `Rat in a business suit.'
chair in a sea of pale blue carpeting.
waiting sourly in the Hilton lobby, marooned on a velour arm-
  The Finn, in a new Shinjuku suit, sarariman black, was
corrugated iron.
cologies, grim housing projects, more walls of plyboard and
walls of patchwork wooden tenements slide by, condos, ar-
neat incision, laying the city open.  He'd watched the crazy
  The road in from the airport had been dead straight, like a
it.  He'd used a sleep derm, on the plane.
  He wanted to tell her the Corto story, but decided against
  `'Cause you get up his nose.  You're sure getting up mine.'
headache.
  `How come Armitage flies alone?' Case asked.  He had a
settled back against the car's gray ultrasuede.
  `The Hilton's in Cumhuriyet Caddesi,' Molly said.  She
  `So it's gone downhill,' Case said.
toman Istanbul,' purred the Mercedes.
  `This was formerly the prosperous European section of Ot-
figures on the sidewalks turning to stare after the car.
jewelers.  The street was almost empty, only a few dark-coated
the grilled and unlit windows of cautious Greek and Armenian
  It was raining in Beyoglu, and the rented Mercedes slid past

        7



broken slag and the rusting shells of refineries.
Case watched the sun rise on the landscape of childhood, on
  The train began to decelerate ten kilometers from the airport. 
slab of freeway concrete.
childhood for Case, dead grass tufting the cracks in a canted
landscape of the northern Sprawl woke confused memories of
from the sleeve of her black jacket and polished the insets.  The
playing ghost with you in Night City.'  She took a silk scarf
Lisboa and he crossed over into Zhongshan.  Next day I was
booked for Macau.  When we got there, I played fantan in the
plant.  `We were in L.A.  He came in and said Pack, we were
red beacons on the horizon warning aircraft away from a fusion
staring out the train window at blasted industrial moonscape,
  `It was like this when we headed for Chiba,' Molly said,

  `Never changes,' she said.  `Bad old town.'
  `Couple days, once.'
`You ever been to 'Stambul?'
clinic.  Does repairs for samurai.'  She was zipping her bag. 
  `You betcha.  Very discreet.  He's got half that rack, full
  `Your dentist?'
  `I could do with another night at Chin's.'
  `You hurting?' he asked.
bag.
No wasted motion.  His clothes were a rumpled pile beside his
eyes, but even with the cast on, it was like watching a dance. 
  Case watched her pack.  There were dark circles under her
  `Finn will handle it,' said Armitage, and hung up.
  `What about my gear?' Case asked.  `My deck.'
  Molly sat up and turned on the light.
  Armitage was reading off flight numbers and departure times.
  `That's just wonderful.'
  `Says we're going to Istanbul tonight.'
  `What does the bastard want?' Molly asked.
  `We're going to Istanbul,' Armitage said.  `Tonight.'
  The telephone rang.  He pulled it into bed.  `Yeah?'

disturbing her.
  Case turned on the foam and Molly cursed him softly for
  The record ended there.
experiment.
program them.  He was cured, the only success in the entire
microcomputers and encouraged, with help from students, to
models.  A random selection of patients were provided with
to reverse schizophrenia through the application of cybernetic
He became a subject in an experimental program that sought
was sent to a government institution on the outskirts of Toulon. 
unit and diagnosed as schizophrenic.  He became catatonic and
without identification had been taken to a Paris mental health
  Translated French medical records explained that a man
interrogation, everything had gone gray.
  One day, he said, in a taped segment that suggested chemical
The record grew vague, shadowy, the gaps longer.
paid killer in the ruins of Bonn.  He robbed a bank in Wichita. 
Then as enforcer for a California gambling cartel, then as a
  Next he surfaced in Thailand, as overseer of a heroin factory. 
and set fire to his room.
in Singapore, he beat a Russian engineer to death in a hotel
entists and technicians he bought out for his employers.  Drunk,
to grow obsessed with the idea of betrayal, to loathe the sci-
porate defectors in Lisbon and Marrakesh, where he seemed
onage records, and news files.  Case watched Corto work cor-
  The Hosaka rattled through police reports, corporate espi-
ington September.
in an asparagus crepe, and Corto stepped out into cool Wash-
of his right hand.  The Congressional aide strangled, his face
people.  Corto crushed the man's larynx with the rigid fingers
plained the terminal dangers involved in talking to the wrong
In an M Street restaurant, over asparagus crepes, the aide ex-
  His role in the trials over, he was unwanted in Washington. 
the emp installations at Kirensk.
responsible for the suppression of reports on the building of
was instrumental in saving the careers of three officers directly
ture.  Corto gradually understood that the testimony he gave
terests in saving particular portions of the Pentagon infrastruc-
the invention of a Congressional cabal with certain vested in-
subsequent testimony was detailed, moving, lucid, and largely
  Repaired, refurnished, and extensively rehearsed, Corto's
trials needed to reach the voter.  The aide coughed politely.
  No, the aide explained, the trials were being televised.  The
ferred to testify as he was.
  Corto heard the soft, relentless dripping.  He said he pre-
squeezing Corto's shoulder through the sweat-damp sheet.
said, but that could be arranged.  New plumbing, the man added,
  He'd need eyes, legs, and extensive cosmetic work, the aide
Corto.
cused on Screaming Fist.  Ripe for watergating, the aide told
partially dismantled, and a Congressional investigation had fo-
derway.  The Pentagon and the CIA were being Balkanized,
In Washington and McLean, the show trials were already un-
to find him there.  He listened to the sound of tubes draining. 
of his jaw.  It took eleven months for the Congressional aide
to a military facility in Utah, blind, legless, and missing most
helicopter.  The war ended nine days later, and Corto was shipped
Finnish paramedics sawing him out of the twisted belly of the
Fist had ended for Corto on the outskirts of Helsinki, with
non manned by a cadre of reservists on dawn alert.  Screaming
landed in a spruce grove, by an antique twenty-millimeter can-
gunship that managed to reach Finland.  To be gutted, as it
documents concerning the flight of a commandeered Russian
  There were gaps in the story, here, where Case scanned
falling...
dead console man fell out of a Siberian sky.  Fell and kept
the fragile, radar-transparent assault planes, and Corto and his
  Then the lasers opened up, aiming on infrared, taking out
fered systems crash, flight circuitry wiped clean.
threw the jockeys into electronic darkness; the Nightwings suf-
Mole IX, when the emps went off.  The Russian pulse guns
run for three years.  They were through the ice, ready to inject
of cybernetics.  Corto and his team had been training for the
virus program called Mole IX, the first true virus in the history
for the weight of a console operator, a prototype deck, and a
  The microlights had been unarmed, stripped to compensate
Molly stirred beside him.
  `They sure as hell did shaft you, boss,' Case said, and
launch capsules, high above a frozen steppe.
Case tried to imagine the microlights blossoming out of their
Podhamennaya, the last light Corto would see for fifteen months. 
light, reflected in jags of silver along the rivers Angara and
in Nightwing microlights, their wings snapping taut in moon-
the hole with pulse bombs, and Corto's team had dropped in
in the Russian defenses over Kirensk.  The shuttles had created
  Willis Corto, Colonel, had plummeted through a blind spot
were audio recordings of the Screaming Fist hearing.
had to ask the computer to read them for him.  Other segments
reeling smoothly down the screen, too quickly, and Case had
was full of gaps.  Some of the material had been print records,
had sorted a thin store of data and assembled a precis, but it
various parts of a story about a man called Corto.  The Hosaka
and confused.  He lay there, eyes closed, and tried to sort the
  `Tell you later,' he said, `I'm wrecked.'  He was hungover
and drugs.
  `You find anything?' she asked, her voice fuzzy with sleep
the temperfoam mold itself against him.
  Two hours later, Case fell beside Molly on the slab and let

  A man's face filled the screen.  The eyes were Armitage's.
  `Show it already,' Case said.
Corto.'
distant voice of the Hosaka.  `Central figure is Colonel Willis
marily video recordings of postwar military trials,' said the
placed by a simple lozenge of white light.  `Contents are pri-
  The neuroelectronic scrawls of the paradise vanished, re-
personal history.'
  `Scan this shit,' Case told the Hosaka.  `Sift for owner's
  `Big deal,' said the Flatline.  `No ice at all.'
It took three tries.
trying to catch the pauses the construct used to indicate timing. 
began to chant a series of digits, Case keying them on his deck,
  `Here,' said the voice, `I'll do it for you.'  The Flatline
with the London data base that Molly claimed was Armitage's.
standard phone code.  With the Flatline's help, he connected
  Case tapped his way into Bell Europa and switched to a
find posted.  Kids'll steal the new ones tomorrow.'
soon and read the whole damn board, change any codes they
an entry code for Bell Europa.  Fresh, too.  Bell'll get in here
  `There,' said the Flatline, `the blue one.  Make it out?  That's
faculties.
that shimmered against the confused outlines of a dozen arts
left at the junctions of grid lines, faint glyphs of colored light
it resembled the kind of graffiti student operators sometimes
jumbled border of a low-security academic grid.  At first glance
  They found their paradise, a `pirate's paradise,' on the
punched.
the university section.'  The voice recited coordinates as he
had explained his situation.  `Check Copenhagen, fringes of
  `You want you a paradise,' the Flatline advised, when Case

        6



  `You gonna tell me I got a choice, boy?'
that?'
over to London grid and access a little data.  You game for
  `Right.  And for starts, Dix, you and me, we're gonna sleaze
  `Miami,' said the voice, `joeboy, quick study.'
  `Case.'
  `If you say so,' said the construct.  `Who are you?'
  `Okay, Dix.  You _are_ a ROM construct.  Got me?'
  `Guess so,' said the construct.
real time memory?'
  `So I jack it into the bank I'm using, I can give it sequential,
  `Sure, bro, it's a firmware construct.'
  `Know how a ROM personality matrix works?'
  `No.'
  `Remember being here, a second ago?'
  `Good question.'
  `Ca -- your buddy.  Partner.  What's happening, man?'
  `You got me hung, Jack.  Who the fuck are you?'
was gone.  He reconnected it.  `Dix?  Who am I?'
  `Hang on.'  He disconnected the construct.  The presence
  `Nothin'~.'
Dix?'
  `What's the last thing you remember before I spoke to you,
  `Miami, joeboy, quick study.'
  `It's Case, man.  Remember?'
  `Hey, bro,' said a directionless voice.
tight.
  He coughed.  `Dix?  McCoy?  That you man?'  His throat was
shoulder.
  It was exactly the sensation of someone reading over his
ice, connected the construct, and jacked in.
of light fell directly on the Flatline's construct.  He slotted some
  He turned on the tensor beside the Hosaka.  The crisp circle
input trodes under the cast.
transdermal unit lay beside her, its fine red leads connected to
and color, ran in a neat line down her left wrist.  An Akai
shading into ugly yellow.  Eight derms, each a different size
skin beneath the rigid micropore mottled with bruises, the black
ran from her knee to a few millimeters below her crotch, the
  Molly was snoring on the temperfoam.  A transparent cast
paper Molly had given him and made his way up the stairs.
beat to maintain his sense of timing.  Case fingered the slip of
refused to replace the thing, saying he needed its particular
Russian heart, implanted in a POW camp during the war.  He'd
  And his heart had done for him in the end.  His surplus
Lazarus of cyberspace...
strange group anxiety, almost a superstition.  McCoy Pauley,
  The cowboy elite in the Loser shunned Pauley out of some
jus'~ kept right on keepin'~ on.'
kept the hind legs movin'~.  Hit that black stuff and ol'~ tailbrain
two goddam brains, one in the head an'~ one by the tailbone,
`I'm like them huge fuckin'~ lizards, you know?  Had themself
  `Boy,' the Flatline would tell him, months later in Miami,
sleeves, something leaden about the shade of his skin.
Case stared across the crowded bar at a thickset man in shirt-
payroll net.  Anyway, the man was dead, flat down braindeath.' 
price of a beer, `but who knows what?  I hear maybe a Brazilian
impossible.  `It was big,' another would-be told Case, for the
had little to say about Pauley, other than that he'd done the
The grapevine -- slender, street level, and the only one going --
'Lanta fringes, who'd survived braindeath behind black ice. 
  They'd all heard of Pauley, the redneck jockey from the
boy.  No other way to learn.
that summer, each one bent on working joeboy for some cow-
There were at least twenty other hopefuls ghosting the Loser,
He'd never touched a deck, then, but he knew what he wanted. 
Loser, nursing expensive beers and watching the cowboys. 
He'd spent most of his nineteenth summer in the Gentleman
  He walked back to the loft, lost in memories of the Flatline. 
of light: T-A.
small coin, woven into the lower left corner of the ad's fabric
a meat thing.  But now he noticed the little sigil, the size of a
Freeside banks as easily as he could reach Atlanta.  Travel was
never appealed to him.  With his deck, he could reach the
He'd seen the ad, or others like it, thousands of times.  It had
flanged and studded with grids and radiators, docks, domes. 
the thing.  WHY WAIT? pulsed the sign.  A blunt white spindle,
He walked through the crowd and stood beneath it, studying
beneath it in contorted capitals that mimicked printed Japanese. 
suspended against the wall of the station, FREESIDE pulsing
  He stepped out and caught sight of a white holographic cigar
the train reached Case's station.
Before they could stampede, take flight from the missionaries,
like polished hooves against the gray metal of the car's floor. 
consciously with the movement of the train, their high heels
like tall, exotic grazing animals, swaying gracefully and un-
entists from beneath lowered metallic lids.  The girls looked
licked their perfect lips nervously and eyed the Christian Sci-
wrists, wet pink glittering under the harsh lighting.  The techs
office techs who wore idealized holographic vaginas on their
looking Christian Scientists were edging toward a trio of young
watched the other passengers as he rode.  A pair of predatory- 
the tunnel's ceiling.  Case shuffled into the nearest door and
along the black induction strip, fine grit sifting from cracks in
sessions, kneejerk responses...  The local came booming in
hardwired ROM cassette replicating a dead man's skills, ob-
  It was disturbing to think of the Flatline as a construct, a
ever since.
construct in her green bag, and Case had been drinking steadily
form.  Molly had gone back to the loft hours ago, the Flatline's
  Case waited for a trans-BAMA local on the crowded plat-

  `Crack it.'  She laughed.  `Earn your keep for a change.'
  `London,' Case said.
erns.  Separate deal.  Where is it?'
  `Armitage.  Some data base of his.  Bought it from the Mod-
  `Who's this?'
codes.
handed it to him.  He opened it.  Grid coordinates and entry
now.'  She drew a folded scrap of paper from her pocket and
  `Nowhere yet,' Molly said, `but you got a little side gig
off an AI named Wintermute.  Where's that get us?'
  `Okay,' Case said, `we got Armitage getting his goodies
  `Probably got him on ice.  Thaw when needed.'
little ninja, Finn?'
  `Expensive,' she said.  `Wonder whatever happened to that
  `Smith thought so.'
  `You figure they own that ninja, Finn?' Molly asked.
private.'
at Molly.  `The Villa Straylight.  Tip of the spindle.  Strictly
decided to forget about it.  Maybe he was smart.'  He looked
the head, and Tessier-Ashpool sent their ninja after it.  Smith
and that was it.  Jimmy must've gotten into Straylight, lifted
at this fantastic tangle of powers of attorney the T-A's have,
  `Nothing.'  The Finn frowned.  `Dropped it.  We had a look
  `So what happened with your fence?'
accident...'
about thirty years.  Founding momma, she died in some lab
they trade off, though nobody's seen the founding father in
you're legally dead for the duration of a freeze.  Looks like
  `Got their own cryogenic setup.  Even under orbital law,
  `How's that?' Molly asked.
a given time.'
eration, or combination of generations, is running the show at
engineering, right?  And it's hard to keep track of which gen-
media.  Lot of cloning.  Orbital law's a lot softer on genetic
orbit family, run like a corporation.  Big money, very shy of
looking at a very quiet, very eccentric first-generation high- 
over a hundred years.  On any market, as far as I know.  You're
been a share of Tessier-Ashpool traded on the open market in
structure.  Supposedly you can buy into an S.A., but there hasn't
morgues and compiled a precis.  Family organization.  Corporate
we got when the cowboy ran a regular go-to on the news
damn near the whole thing.  The interesting stuff was the picture
  `Freeside,' the Finn said.  `The spindle.  Turns out they own
  Case raised his eyebrows.
address.  Lotta good it did us.'
firm.  Then he did the lawyer's ice and we got the family
in litigation.  The case wasn't anything, but we got the law
cowboy buzz the news morgues until we found Tessier-Ashpool
biz has a vibe, you get so you can smell it.  Well, I had my
too, always.  Was it spook stuff?  Smith didn't think so.  Spook
rigid code covers situations like that, and they kill the receiver
out of that Swiss stash?  Yakuza?  No way.  They got a very
and he'd come out on top, but it didn't add up.  Who'd paid,
he was careful.  He'd just had a very weird business experience
a cowboy.  I was the cut-out, so I took a percentage.  Smith,
where you go for a quiet go-to that'll never be traced.  I hired
knew I dealt a lot with the Memory Lane crowd, and that's
  `So that was where I came in,' the Finn continued.  `Smith
death.
piece?  Smith told him.  Within days, Smith learned of Jimmy's
Swiss account.  And who, the man asked, brought you this
a credit chip and keyed Smith that amount out of a numbered
far lower than the price he'd intended to set.  The ninja produced
obtain through the sale of this object?  Smith named a figure
the head.  And how much, his visitor asked, did you expect to
  Smith told the man that he had no wish to die, and produced
know of the whereabouts of this object.
had come to his attention, the ninja said, that Smith might
beauty, which had been taken from the house of his master.  It
to find and return a certain artwork, a mechanism of great
apologetically, the cloned killer explained that it was his duty
across a polished table of Vietnamese rosewood.  Gently, almost
Smith sat very still, staring into the calm brown eyes of death
polite, who bore all the marks of a vatgrown ninja assassin. 
though it didn't exist.  A small man, Japanese, enormously
walked in through the elaborate maze of Smith's security as
  And then he had a visitor, a visitor unannounced, one who
thy.
lector, hinting that he was on the track of something notewor-
  Smith began to make preliminary passes at the Tokyo col-
covered, by Tessier-Ashpool S.A.
California chip designer.  It had been commissioned, he dis-
artisans, an enamel specialist in Paris, a Dutch jeweler, and a
able to trace it to an unlikely collaboration between two Zurich
it carefully, discovering certain hallmarks.  Eventually he'd been
  When Jimmy had gone, leaving the head, Smith went over
for it.
shops.  He could try, he said, but he doubted he could get much
showing Jimmy his upturned palms in a gesture old as pawn
for clockwork automata approached fetishism.  Smith shrugged,
  Smith's clientele included a Tokyo billionaire whose passion
last year's tax return.
listened as the melodious, inhuman voice piped the figures of
was a curiosity.  Smith jacked the head into his computer and
verse thing, because synth-voice chips cost next to nothing.  It
It was a baroque thing for anyone to have constructed, a per-
with a beautiful arrangement of gears and miniature organ pipes. 
terminal, he said.  It could talk.  And not in a synth-voice, but
to the collector.  Jimmy laughed.  The thing was a computer
down.  It was contemporary, not an antique, and had no value
his pocket microscope and advised Jimmy to melt the thing
ded with seedpearls and lapis.  Smith, sighing, had put down
head, an intricately worked bust, cloisonn over platinum, stud-
managed to score on his swing through the archipelago was a
down the gravity well.  The most unusual thing Jimmy had
from a year in high orbit, having carried certain things back
Jimmy was a burglar and other things as well, and just back
  Smith, it developed, had had a supplier known as Jimmy. 
was being very careful.  Almost too careful.'
smelled,' the Finn said to Case, `smelled of money.  And Smith
had opined, but an explanation was definitely required.  `It
tracing the inquiry to its source.  It might be possible, the Finn
way that would guarantee the impossibility of the subject ever
Tessier-Ashpool clan, he said, and it had to be executed in a
request, one businessman to another.  He wanted a go-to on the
Smith had come to the Finn with a request for help, a fraternal
formidable, at least by the standards of his colleagues.  But
in his new socket, Smith's knowledge of the art business was
programs and tables of gallery sales.  With half a dozen chips
for Case -- and the microsofts he purchased were art history
who'd `gone silicon' -- the phrase had an old-fashioned ring
as an art dealer.  He was the first person the Finn had known
  Smith was also a fence, but in balmier seasons he surfaced
story, a man he called Smith.
art.  The story he told Case and Molly began with another man's
coins, gems, jewelry, furs, and paintings and other works of
traditional articles of the trade.  In precious metals, stamps, rare
into contact with other fences, some of whom dealt in the more
in software.  In the course of his business, he sometimes came
  The Finn was a fence, a trafficker in stolen goods, primarily

  `Haven't ever told anybody this one,' the Finn began.
  `Finn,' Molly said.  `He loves a story.'
hunched forward.
story for you about them.  Wanna hear?'  He sat down and
  `Tessier-Ashpool S.A.,' said the Finn.  `And I got a little
any autonomy.  It'll be the parent corporation, this Tessle...'
  `And you think it's this AI?  Those things aren't allowed
tage?'
money if they answered one question: who's running Armi-
very weird lines of communication.  Deal was, they'd get my
little,' Molly explained, turning to Case.  `They have some
  `I paid Larry to have the Moderns nose around Armitage a
Armitage.'
  `If Yonderboy's right,' the Finn said, `this AI is backing
  `That's all just fine,' Molly said, `but where's it get us?'
Turing Registry numbers.  Artificial intelligence.'
  `Wintermute is the recognition code for an AI.  I've got the
them.
  `What's in Berne, okay?'  Case deliberately stepped between
the original software.'
Built for Tessier-Ashpool S.A.  They own the mainframe and
ited Swiss citizenship under their equivalent of the Act of '53. 
  `Berne,' the Finn said, ignoring him.  `Berne.  It's got lim-
  `Slow it down a little,' Case said.
  `Smart,' the Finn said.  `It's an AI.'
aside.  `I did a deal with Larry, on the side.'
  `Yonderboy,' Molly said, shoving the herring and crackers
you got it?'
have got it.  No shit, I can smell it.  You wanna tell me where
  `Honey,' he said to Molly, tucking the console away, `you
elaborate sequence.
took a flat little console from his pocket and punched out an
While Case smoothed the velcro border into place, the Finn
up salute, and gestured to Case to help him with the door panel. 
teeth in a wide yellow smile.  He nodded, gave Molly a thumbs- 
  Ten minutes and the Finn came bustling back, showing his
pylons as he passed.
aimlessly around the room, fingering the scanning gear on the
finger, and speared a grayish slab of herring.  Case wandered
  Molly took his place, extruded the blade from her index
  `Wait,' the Finn said, and left the room.
piled with the butts of Partagas.
table beside a torn plastic package of flatbread and a tin ashtray
tered tweed jacket.  A glass jar of pickled herring stood on the
tion.  He stood up, brushing crumbs from the front of his bat-
one that conveyed a mixture of impatience and glum resigna-
as though it might explode.  He made a sign Case didn't know,
between thumb and forefinger, holding it away from his body
wrote something on it, and passed it to the Finn.  He took it
  Molly began to sign rapidly, produced a scrap of paper,
  Beyond the army blanket, the Finn waited at the white table.
waste places.
of discarded technology, flowering secretly in the Sprawl's
invisible flakes settling to form a mulch, a crystalline essence
subtly, cooking itself down under the pressure of time, silent
how during their absence.  Or else it seemed that it was changing
along the tunnel of refuse.  Case felt the stuff had grown some-
woven tightly into her hair opened the Finn's door and led them
  A thin black child with wooden beads and antique resistors
Her leg seemed to be bothering her, and she seldom spoke.
not to ask questions; they only brought the sign for silence. 
alarming ease, they tubed in to New York.  Case had learned
  After lunch in Baltimore, Molly dissecting her crab with

  `Get us some crab,' she said.
up in the jive for silence.
his neat, laborious capitals.  `He said --'  But her hand came
napkin with W I N T E R M U T E printed in red feltpen in
  `Lupus Yonderboy.  Had a message.'  He passed her a paper
  `Yeah?  Which one?'
  `I ran into one of your pals,' he said, `a Modern.'
  `He says if I kick anything, it'll fall off.'
ALD CHIN, DENTIST.  She was limping.
from one that wore the elaborately worked logo of one GER-
each coffin forty meters long.  Case met Molly as she emerged
building was modular, like some giant version of Cheap Hotel,
an anonymous condo-rack near the old hub of Baltimore.  The
  The medical team Molly employed occupied two floors of

        5



  Ninsei had been a lot simpler.
leaning back against peeling brickwork.
  Case closed his eyes, massaged them with numb fingers,
gone.
eyes winked back the red of a stoplight.  And then he was really
gray, mottled and stained as the sidewalk he stood on.  The
Hood up to hide the pink, the suit exactly the right shade of
thin black arms whirling, and then he was gone.  No.  There. 
against old concrete.  He executed a strange little dance, his
crest of pink hair.  His suit went matte black, a carbon shadow
  `Wintermute,' Yonderboy repeated, nodding, bobbing his
  `Who from?'
  `No,' Yonderboy said.  `For you.'
  `From you?'  Case took a step forward.
  `This is the message.  Wintermute.'  He spelled it out.
derboy.'
head taller than the Modern.  `You oughta be careful, Yon-
  Case straightened up, hands in jacket pockets.  He was a
through pure primaries.  `Pardon.  Not to startle you.'
  `Message for you, Case.'  Lupus Yonderboy's suit cycled
back.
  He darted sideways, instinctively getting a wall behind his
  `Case.'
plastic cylinders rattling in its bed.
tricycle-truck with mirrored windows bounced past him, empty
were blanks; the woman reminded him of Linda Lee.  A battered
the faces of the three people he'd killed in Chiba.  The men
the lobby of Sense/Net.  He found himself trying to remember
ther did the fear and agony he'd seen through Molly's eyes in
branes wearing thinner as he walked, it didn't seem real.  Nei-
toxin sacs dissolving in his bloodstream, microscopic mem-
the gutter and lighting another.  He tried to imagine Armitage's
leather jacket, flicking the first of a chain of Yeheyuans into
  He took corners at random, his collar up, hunched in a new
distance.
beneath his feet as a train hissed past.  Sirens dopplered in the
then Armitage, and Molly was in surgery somewhere.  Vibration
He couldn't sleep.  He was sick of the loft.  Lupus had gone,
as Case left the building.  His limbs felt cold and disconnected. 
  The Sprawl's geodesics were lightening into predawn gray

  `Molly,' he told Armitage, handing him the phone.
  The phone rang.  Case answered.
the single pocket on the front of his suit.
  `That's business,' said Yonderboy, stuffing the money into
  `I hope that isn't a threat,' Armitage said.
Who.  You pay to stay one.  Not a Mr.~ Name.'
  `No,' the Panther Modern said.  `You'll pay.  You're a Mr.~
want to count it?' he asked Yonderboy.
dles of New Yen from the pockets of his trenchcoat.  `You
  Armitage crossed stiffly to the table and took three fat bun-
  `Pay him.'
  `Your woman has it,' Yonderboy said.
  Armitage glared at him.  `We don't have the goods.'
  `Pay him,' Case said.
for her.  Everything's fine.'  He smiled again.
needed her medical team.  She's with them.  We'll watch out
on a weird angular pattern of beige and pale avocado.  `She
We deal with her.  Not with you, Mr.~ Who.'  His suit had taken
mode and modus.  That is our central kick.  Your woman knows. 
  `Chaos, Mr.~ Who,' Lupus Yonderboy said.  `That is our
folds of an expensive-looking trenchcoat.
the center of the loft like a statue, wrapped in the dark glossy
  `You let it get out of control,' Armitage said.  He stood in
like a cat's.  Case watched the suit crawl with color and texture.
more pink hair.  His pupils had been modified to catch the light
bristled behind his left ear; the ear was pointed, tufted with
He smiled.  His hair was pink.  A rainbow forest of microsofts
gargoyle, he regarded Case and Armitage with hooded eyes. 
edge of Case's worktable like some kind of state of the art
that allowed him to replay backgrounds at will.  Perched on the
pus Yonderboy, wore a polycarbon suit with a recording feature
  The Panther Modern leader, who introduced himself as Lu-

but down some bloodwarm well, into silence and the dark.
falling, not to the marble floor, slick with blood and vomit,
  `Chicago,' she said, `I'm on my way.'  And then she was
era wrapped in polycarbon.
Tommy handed something to the one who spoke, a video cam-
raged behind them.  `You hurt?  C'mon.  Tommy'll walk you.' 
unable to keep up with the confusion of shape and color that
stared out of madly swirling shades of polycarbon, their suits
  `C'mon, sister.  We're for out.'  The eyes of the two Moderns
clothing, blood, and long trampled scrolls of yellow printout.
raw and total fear.  The lobby floor was covered with bodies,
itated.  It was a sort of keening, rising into a bubbling wail of
  Neither, apparently, had Molly.  `Jesus,' she said, and hes-
anything like that sound.
and forth across the lobby's marble floor.  Case had never heard
background for the sound the crowd made as it surged back
cades.  The hollow thumping of the riot guns provided a constant
main street doors, bodies were piled three deep on the barri-
degree of efficiency.  Beyond the shattered wreckage of the
of potential killers, were cooperating with an uncharacteristic
The two agencies, convinced that they were containing a horde
of the Tacticals and the sandbag-guns of the BAMA Rapids. 
surged for the street doors, only to meet the foam barricades
  The Sense/Net employees, spilling out of the elevators, had
  Case had seen panic before, but never in an enclosed area.
into her sternum when she moved.  She stepped out.
forehead.  The construct, in the suit's kangaroo pocket, dug
after them, and drew the hood of her suit down across her
and the pink raincoat out the door, tossing the dark glasses
derm from the guard's neck.  Then she kicked the white pants
with her head.  Molly ignored her, bending over to peel the
out of the crowd, into the elevator, and struck the rear wall
  As the elevator door hissed open, a woman hurtled backward
over him and removed the blackbox before punching LOBBY.
time.  Something of Molly's, to keep him under.  She stepped
on the floor.  Case noticed the derm on his neck for the first
panel, remained where she'd left it.  The guard still lay curled
  The elevator, with Molly's blackbox taped beside the control
to talk about it.  He flipped.
security men Molly had encountered in the corridor would live
neatly with the Modern's terror run.  He doubted that the three
deflection of the Los Angeles transfer, which coincided too
to discover the theft of the construct.  The key would be the
still retain awareness of his body.  It might take Sense/Net days
concentration of an actual run, he could remain jacked in and
  `Out, Brood,' he said, and slumped in his chair.  After the
as he passed the gates where they had been stationed.
out, subprograms whirling back into the core of the icebreaker
reversal.  The Sense/Net gates snapped past him as he backed
back into his program, automatically triggering a full system
  He withdrew the line through the library ice.  It whipped
  Molly closed the locker door; Case flipped.
ratings.
rifle, its surfaces covered with warning decals and security
from the rack.  It resembled the magazine of a large assault
  `0467839,' Case said, and Molly drew a black storage unit
  The door swung open on silent hinges.
would find the records erased.
ing for the authorization to remove the construct, a librarian
had been removed, per executive order, a month before.  Check-
suffered a minute shift in its permanent memory: the construct
themselves to have remained locked.  The library's central bank
ative.  The three elaborate locks deactivated, but considered
arate alarm systems were convinced that they were still oper-
down the crimson thread that pierced the library ice.  Five sep-
  Case flipped to cyberspace and sent a command pulsing
  `Do it, Cutter,' Molly said.
the Neo-Aztec bookcases in Julie Deane's anteroom in Chiba.
the cabinet that held the construct.  Its lines reminded Case of
  `That's it,' Case said, but she'd already stopped in front of
explanation.
threat, but he'd been too involved with his ice to follow Molly's
level of terror.  He knew it had something to do with a hoaxed
Case wondered what the Moderns had done to provoke that
two lockers, her cheeks wet, eyes blank.  Molly ignored her. 
  She took the left.  A white-faced librarian cowered between
  `Five more and ten left, Cat Mother,' the link man said.
  `Tell her five more and ten to her left, Brood,' Case said.
gray lockers.
could be interfaced.  Molly hobbled between rows of identical
materials stored here had to be physically removed before they
  The Sense/Net research library was a dead storage area; the
  Routine now: trodes, jack, and flip.
in the chair and replaced the trodes.
bloody stumps.  He tightened the nylon harness that held him
With enough endorphin analog, she could walk on a pair of
dered what it was doing to her leg, to walk on it that way. 
cated the location of the Dixie Flatline's construct.  He won-
of a doorway.  Only millimeters from the green dot that indi-
on the screen.  A pulsing red cursor crept through the outline
beside the Hosaka, and checked the map of the library displayed
with a towel, took a quick sip of water from the bicycle bottle
forehead.  He was drenched with sweat.  He wiped his forehead
  Case flipped into the matrix and pulled the trodes from his
a pair of gray steel doors.  `Almost there, Cutter.'
  `Pretty juicy down here,' she said, swinging herself through
Mother.  Foam barricades.  Lobby's getting juicy.'
  `Tacticals and Rapids have sealed the ground floor, Cat
security guards.  One of them seemed to have no eyes.
back, once, Case saw the crumpled bodies of three Sense/Net
  Molly began to limp down the corridor.  When she glanced
  `Tell her I'm in and holding,' Case said.
from target.  Can you hold?'
when I come out.  Tell my people.  Cutter, I'm two minutes
  `Okay, Brood.  Okay now.  But I'll need a medical team
She sighed and slowly relaxed.
arched convulsively.  Pink waves of warmth lapped up her thighs. 
came down on the pain like a hammer, shattering it.  Her back
over the veins.  Six thousand micrograms of endorphin analog
selected three and thumbed them hard against her left wrist,
a sheet of plastic studded with a rainbow of dermadisks.  She
through the contents of the suit's kangaroo pocket and withdrew
the wall, taking all of her weight on her right leg.  She fumbled
  Case forced himself to flip back.  She was leaning against
was indistinct, nearly lost behind static.
  `What you need now, Cat Mother?'  The link man's voice
broke my leg.'
coughed.  `Little problem with the natives.  Think one of them
  `Brood?  Boston, baby...'  Her voice tight with pain.  She
step, Case screamed and found himself back in the matrix.
vision seemed to have narrowed to a tunnel.  With the third
fresh blood.  Glimpse of a shattered fiberglass shockstave.  Her
took her over an outstretched arm.  Uniform sleeve bright with
the corridor wall.  In the loft, Case groaned.  The second step
  Molly took a single step, trying to support her weight on
to wait.  Taking a deep breath, he flipped again.
to the shifting outline of his icebreaker.  He didn't have time
crimson neon extended from the center of the restored window
  Case's program was cycling.  A single hair-fine thread of
  `I dunno, Cutter.  Mother's not talking.  Wait.'
  `What's happening, Brood?' he asked the link man.
in his left thigh.
was back in the matrix instantly, a white-hot line of pain fading
a long corridor, her breath coming ragged and uneven.  Case
broken bone.  Molly was braced against the blank gray wall of
  Case hit the simstim switch.  And flipped into the agony of

of his throat mike.  `Rapids are still trying to land their copter.'
ing foam barricades now,' one noted, speaking for the benefit
camera.  They both wore chameleon suits.  `Tacticals are spray-
behind a low rectangular planter, taping the riot with a video
  In the Sense/Net lobby, two Panther Moderns sat alertly

  Done.
of the window.
  Out now.  Reversing smoothly, the virus reknitting the fabric
commands.
program that effected certain alterations in the core custodial
him starless and smooth as frosted glass, he triggered a sub-
  Punching his way into the sphere, chill blue neon vault above
  Here.  This one.
as if he were on invisible tracks.
severe drug problems.  He began to glide through the spheres
the Finn had purchased from a mid-eschelon sarariman with
with a few basic commands.  Case began to key the sequence
dai, would have presented limitless gulfs of nothingness hung
mension; a child's toy calculator, accessed through Case's Sen-
of a given data construct possessed unlimited subjective di-
grid of pale blue neon.  In the nonspace of the matrix, the interior
blue space ranged with color-coded spheres strung on a tight
mand ice.  He punched himself through and found an infinite
  Case's virus had bored a window through the library's com-
  12:06:26.
over the white mesh top.
it down beside the white pants, and began to pull the suit on
folded the Modern suit.  She removed the pink raincoat, threw
burgundy flickered across the mimetic polycarbon as she un-
micropore.  She knelt and peeled the tape away.  Streaks of
exactly the shade of her pale ankle, was secured there with
elevator.  She was unzipping the white pants.  A bulky packet,
downstairs.'  Case switched and saw the blank wall of the
materials.  `Boston,' Molly's voice came across the link, `I'm
mands for the sub-basement that housed the Sense/Net research
virus attacked the code fabric screening primary custodial com-
  Case triggered his second program.  A carefully engineered

lifting off from its pad on Riker's.
full riot lights.  A BAMA Rapid Deployment helicopter was
were converging on the Sense/Net Pyramid.  They were running
possibility of Blue Nine in the building's ventilation system,
  Half a dozen NYPD Tactical hovercraft, responding to the
flare of white screen, the Sense/Net Pyramid screamed.
minutes after midnight, as the Moderns'~ message ended in a
consortium held just over three thousand employees.  At five
  At 12:05:00, the mirror-sheathed nexus of the Sense/Net
as high as one thousand percent.
certain bone cells into overdrive, accelerating growth by factors
the human skeletal growth factor.  Overdoses of HsG threw
uses of a substance known as HsG, a biochemical governing
was part of a month-old newscast detailing potential military
justed to run at just less than twice the standard playback speed,
into darkness, a pale splash...  The audio track, its pitch ad-
manipulating laboratory glassware, something tumbling down
graphics of the building's water supply system, gloved hands
and vanished.  Subliminally rapid images of contamination:
clump of gnarled roots, fumbled toward the camera, blurred,
jaw moved.  Something, perhaps a hand, a thing like a reddish
cator projection.  Blue lips parted wetly as the twisted, elongated
across asymmetrical expanses of bone like some obscene Mer-
vaguely like a human face filled the screens, its features stretched
ceptible segment of Sense/Net employees.  Then something only
teen seconds in a frequency that produced seizures in a sus-
  At 12:04:03, every screen in the building strobed for eigh-
the Sense/Net building's internal video system.
dose of misinformation.  This time, they shot it directly into
move to take effect, then injected a second carefully prepared
  The Panther Moderns allowed four minutes for their first

lock that secured the panel's circuitry.
from her coat pocket and inserted a lead in the keyhole of the
DOOR and STOP on the illuminated panel.  She took a blackbox
  Chewing a little more rapidly now, she touched CLOSE
she slammed his head sideways, against the wall of the elevator.
plexus.  As he doubled over, clawing for the beeper on his belt,
the first two knuckles of her right hand into the man's solar
his eyebrows.  Molly popped her gum.  `No,' she said, driving
  `Excuse me, but are you an employee?'  The guard raised
research library.  He found himself stepping into an elevator.
of the subsystem that controlled security for the Sense/Net
  Case hit the switch as his program surged through the gates

eighty-five percent of experimental subjects.
shown to produce acute paranoia and homicidal psychosis in
Blue Nine, known in California as Grievous Angel, had been
Blue Nine into the ventilation system of the Sense/Net Pyramid. 
clinical levels of an outlawed psychoactive agent known as
fundamentalists had just taken credit for having introduced
the information that an obscure subsect of militant Christian
police departments and public security agencies were absorbing
out into the night, peeling off surgical gloves.  Nine different
Each Modern delivered a short set speech, hung up, and drifted
had simultaneously dialed MAX EMERG from pay phones. 
Moderns, scattered along two hundred miles of the Sprawl,
link man in Jersey had given his command.  `Mainline.'  Nine
  At midnight, synched with the chip behind Molly's eye, the

  12:01:20 as the readout flared in her optic nerve.
circular reception desk at the rear of the lobby.
  He flipped again.  Molly was strolling past the enormous
to deflect the real Los Angeles data when it arrived.
programs peeled off, meshing with the gate's code fabric, ready
Los Angeles complex.  He was inside.  Behind him, viral sub-
accepted his entry as a routine transfer from the consortium's
  The gate blurred past.  He laughed.  The Sense/Net ice had
like a trick deck.  Take a card, he thought, any card.
making minor adjustments.  Translucent planes of color shuffled
him, only faintly aware of his hands playing across the deck,
He watched as his icebreaker strobed and shifted in front of
  He flipped back.  His program had reached the fifth gate. 
they were partially extruded, then retracted.
sensation at the tips of her fingers was caused by the blades as
ercises.  It took him a few seconds to realize that the peculiar
flexing systematically through a series of tension-release ex-
dermadisk.  Her hands, in the pockets of the pink coat, were
glued to her neck, looked as much as possible like an analgesic
radio, the simstim unit, and the scrambler.  The throat mike,
tape across her ribcage, feel the flat little units under it: the
her gum.  Case felt like laughing.  He could feel the micropore
in Tokyo the previous year.  She grinned vacantly and popped
top, loose white pants cut in a style that had been fashionable
Tally Isham.  She wore a pink plastic raincoat, a white mesh
belonged there, another tourist girl hoping for a glimpse of
mirrored insets, she managed to look remarkably like she
tion.  Aside from the huge pair of sunglasses concealing her
lobby, chewing gum, apparently fascinated by her own reflec-
before a wall of gold-flecked mirror in the building's vast white
  The scrambler blurred the visual input slightly.  She stood
hit the simstim and flipped into her sensorium.
the glowing strata of Sense/Net ice.  Good.  Check Molly.  He
the link man, his voice the only sound as Case plunged through
  He jacked in and triggered his program.  `Mainline,' breathed
countdown in the corner of the screen.  Two.  One.
Sense/Net systems when Molly needed it to.  He watched the
sure the intrusion program he'd written would link with the
sion for the Sense/Net security people.  His job was to make
a vague idea of what the Panther Moderns planned as a diver-
and scratched his chest beneath his black t-shirt.  He had only
  Case gulped the last of his coffee, settled the trodes in place,
she'd be coming out at all.
building for more than twenty minutes, it was highly unlikely
voice, the code would tip the Moderns.  If she remained in the
managed to intercept Molly's signal, unscramble it, synth her
to Chicago to Denver, five minutes for each city.  If anyone
  Atlanta.  The recognition code was simple.  Atlanta to Boston
as the Sense/Net building.
epoxy-ed to the roof of a black glass bank tower nearly as tall
signals were being beamed up from a one-meter umbrella dish
choice of comsats seemed to have been deliberate.  Molly's
the entire operation as an elaborate private joke, and their
geosynchronous orbit above Manhattan.  They chose to regard
scrambled signal off a Sons of Christ the King satellite in
of chickenwire dish in New Jersey to bounce the link man's
  `To hear is to obey.'  The Moderns were using some kind
slightly clearer.
`Atlanta, Brood.  Looks go.  Go, got it?'  Molly's voice was
link man.  His voice was modulated static in Case's headset. 
  `Love you, Cat Mother,' whispered the Panther Modern's

arcade toy.'
Compared to what you'll eventually be up against, this is an
  `Yes,' Armitage admitted, `but don't let it go to your head. 
Armitage.'
  `Balls,' Case said, smiling at the screen.  `That's good work,
took your own good time.'
isfaction when Case showed him his plan for the run.  `You
  `I said a week,' Armitage said, unable to conceal his sat-
  The cutting of Sense/Net's ice took a total of nine days.
nine straight hours.
to him.  When he did remember, he jacked in and worked for
Lee, unable to recall who she was or what she'd ever meant
Ninsei neon.  Once he woke from a confused dream of Linda
Moderns, images of Chiba came flooding back.  Faces and
off on one of her reconnaissance trips with her rented cadre of
  And sometimes, falling asleep, particularly when Molly was
it.  He was working.  He lost track of days.
to the deck, not bothering to dress, and jack in.  He was cutting
maze was the first thing he saw when he woke.  He'd go straight
dawn through the steel grid of the skylight.  Its rainbow pixel
he lay with his arm under Molly's shoulders, watching the red
It was good ice.  Wonderful ice.  Its patterns burned there while
traps, and mapped the route he'd take through Sense/Net's ice. 
the screen as he probed for gaps, skirted the most obvious
up in a corner of the loft.  Ice patterns formed and reformed on
having to leave the deck to use the chemical toilet they'd set
sushi on the corner of the long table.  Sometimes he resented
He forgot to eat.  Molly left cartons of rice and foam trays of
  This was it.  This was what he was, who he was, his being. 
ice.
said.  Case nodded, absorbed in the patterns of the Sense/Net
  `You can't let the little pricks generation-gap you,' Molly
seen that before.
animal, Case was actually relieved.  Toothbud transplants.  He'd
Angelo smiled, revealing the razor-sharp canines of some large
the nastiest pieces of elective surgery Case had ever seen.  When
cartilage polysaccharides, smooth and hideous.  It was one of
His face was a simple graft grown on collagen and shark- 
diskettes from the Finn was a soft-voiced boy called Angelo. 
  The one who showed up at the loft door with a box of
tical jokers, nihilistic technofetishists.
the style was the same.  The Moderns were mercenaries, prac-
ets stuffed with microsofts.  It was the style that mattered and
had been available, the Big Scientists would all have had sock-
erns were a softhead variant on the Scientists.  If the technology
subcults and replicated them at odd intervals.  The Panther Mod-
something that carried the coded precepts of various short-lived
was a kind of ghostly teenage DNA at work in the Sprawl,
porary version of the Big Scientists of his own late teens.  There
Hosaka's precis.  The Moderns, he'd decided, were a contem-
  Case met his first Modern two days after he'd screened the

  `Skip it,' Case said.
the original sociopolitical intent...'
of the extent to which media divorce the act of terrorism from
cisely in their degree of self-consciousness, in their awareness
lated.  The Panther Moderns differ from other terrorists pre-
Terrorism as we ordinarily understand it is inately media-re-
terrorist has become symptomatic of the media gestalt itself. 
which the violence may well escalate, but beyond which the
terrorist ceases to manipulate the media gestalt.  A point at
  Dr.~ Rambali smiled.  `There is always a point at which the
isn't a form of terrorism.'
understand why you continue to insist that this phenomenon
olence,' someone said, `it may be difficult for our viewers to
  `Given their penchant for these random acts of surreal vi-
merics.
faculty, and school pulsing across the screen in pink alphanu-
  Cut to Dr.~ Virginia Rambali, Sociology, NYU, her name,
his tight onepiece.  Mimetic polycarbon.
approximating the scribbled brickwork sliding smoothly across
predator.  His body was nearly invisible, an abstract pattern
ing with the sinister grace of a mime pretending to be a jungle
cheeks.  The Hosaka released the freeze; the boy moved, flow-
result of surgery, an angry dusting of acne across pale narrow
paint-scrawled wall.  Dark eyes, epicanthic folds obviously the
snipped from another image and glued to a photograph of a
at first assumed was a collage of some kind, a boy's face
  The precis began with a long hold on a color still that Case
journals, and news services.
`Go,' he said.  The Hosaka had accessed its array of libraries,
overnight, thrive for a dozen weeks, and then vanish utterly. 
of the Sprawl at the speed of light: entire subcultures could rise
had come in since he'd been in Chiba.  Fads swept the youth
  It wasn't a name he knew.  Something new, something that
  `Ready,' the computer said.
trodes.  `Five minute precis.'
  `Panther Moderns,' he said to the Hosaka, removing the
berspace.
complex hung for a few seconds in the buzzing calm of cy-
stantly back in the matrix.  Ghost impressions of the software
  `Case, you take off,' she said, and he hit the switch, in-
  `What are you talking about, lady?'
  `Got something for the Panther Moderns, Larry.'
  `Tell your partner to go.'
  `My partner.'
splinter.  `Somebody else using your eyes.'
  `You got a rider, Molly.  This says.'  He tapped the black
  `I'm looking for the Moderns.'
to buy some softs?'
  `I know you, lady?'  The blank look returned.  `You looking
I'm impressed.  Costs a lot, to get that sensitive.'
  `Hey,' she said, `I didn't know you were so... sensitive. 
  `Molly's got a rider,' he said, `and Larry doesn't like that.'
into his head.  His eyes narrowed.
that was slightly longer than the rest, and inserted it smoothly
dozen others.  His hand hovered, selected a glossy black chip
sportshirt and flicked it open, slotting the microsoft beside a
  Larry took a flat plastic case from the pocket of his red
  `I have some work for some of your friends, Larry.'
  `Molly.'  He nodded.
  `Hey, Larry.'
a bright magenta splinter from his socket with a dirty thumbnail.
him.  The boy's eyes focused.  He sat up in his chair and pried
  `Larry, you in, man?'  She positioned herself in front of
socket behind his ear.
into space, a dozen spikes of microsoft protruding from the
Behind the counter a boy with a shaven head stared vacantly
board.  Molly went to the seventh booth along the south wall. 
under oblong transparent bubbles on squares of white card-
of microsoft, angular fragments of colored silicon mounted
counters that fronted the booths displayed hundreds of slivers
planted behind the left ear, but she didn't focus on them.  The
them out of their teens.  They all seemed to have carbon sockets
Booths lined a central hall.  The clientele were young, few of
plexes that lined Memory Lane.  There was a stillness, a hush. 
  Her destination was one of the dubious software rental com-
afterward...
unity when he'd entered her, and that she liked her coffee black,
against him, earlier, when she woke, their mutual grunt of
thing she did to make a living.  He knew the way she'd moved
another professional; that she said her being, like his, was the
sensations with.  What did he know about her?  That she was
  He found himself wondering about the mind he shared these
into the sinuous flow of muscle, senses sharp and bright.
counting potential windows.  Keying back into her sensorium,
ice belonging to the New York Public Library automatically
instantaneous.  He punched himself down a wall of primitive
  The transition to cyberspace, when he hit the switch, was
of the situation irritating.
would have used to find his way.  He began to find the passivity
Lane.  Case kept trying to jerk her eyes toward landmarks he
  Two blocks later, she was threading the outskirts of Memory
to reply.
breath.  She laughed.  But the link was one-way.  He had no way
a nipple under warm silk.  The sensation made him catch his
form them.  She slid a hand into her jacket, a fingertip circling
  `How you doing.  Case?'  He heard the words and felt her
room.
but people melted out of her way, stepped sideways, made
seemed continually on the verge of colliding with someone,
  Her body language was disorienting, her style foreign.  She
Showing off, he thought.
alphanumerics winked the time, low in her left peripheral field. 
wondered if the built-in amps compensated automatically.  Blue
  The glasses didn't seem to cut down the sunlight al all.  He
senger behind her eyes.
body.  Then he willed himself into passivity, became the pas-
a few frightened seconds he fought helplessly to control her
of urine, free monomers, perfume, patties of frying krill.  For
of plastic, fragments of music from countless speakers.  Smells
past stalls vending discount software, prices feltpenned on sheets
sound and color...  She was moving through a crowded street,
  The abrupt jolt into other flesh.  Matrix gone, a wave of
  Then he keyed the new switch.
it...
Smooth, he thought, but not smooth enough.  Have to work on
  Cyberspace slid into existence from the cardinal points. 
  And one and two and --
ribbon of fiberoptics.
  The new switch was patched into his Sendai with a thin
  The screen bleeped a two-second warning.
of a segment, you didn't feel it.
of course, so that if Tally Isham got a headache in the course
multiplication of flesh input.  The commercial stuff was edited,
of presentation, but simstim itself struck him as a gratuitous
drastic simplification of the human sensorium, at least in terms
ically the same, and that the cyberspace matrix was actually a
the little plastic tiara dangling from a simstim deck were bas-
was basically a meat toy.  He knew that the trodes he used and
  Cowboys didn't get into simstim, he thought, because it
gress in one corner of the monitor screen.
filtered through the grid overhead.  A countdown was in pro-
forehead, watching motes dance in the diluted sunlight that
  Case sat in the loft with the dermatrodes strapped across his

        4



tight those jeans really are, huh?'
Finn scratched his chin.  `So now you get to find out just how
rig, though, so it's probably her sensorium you'll access.'  The
  `I haven't got a clue.  Know I'm fitting Moll for a broadcast
  `What for?'
to jack out of the matrix.'
here, you can access live or recorded simstim without having
  `It's a flipflop switch, basically.  Wire it into your Sendai
  `What is it?'
away in an inside pocket.
right?'  He folded the envelope with great care and tucked it
what else.  We'll get in, but there's no rest for the wicked,
the works.  Booby-trapped for x-ray, ultrascan, God knows
block of polycarbon, can't get in with a laser without frying
said, tossing the thing down on the table.  `Cast 'em into a
tangle from the envelope.  `Goddamn factory prototypes,' he
flicked ash on the floor, and extracted a featureless black rec-
kid.'  He took a filthy manila envelope from inside his jacket,
Sendai.  `Looks stock.  Soon fix that.  But here's your problem,
the room.  He crossed to the worktable and glanced at the Ono- 
from a pocket and lit one.  The smell of Cuban tobacco filled
for your boss, it looks like.'  The Finn fished a pack of Partagas
  `Pleased to meecha, I'm sure.  I'm doing some hardware
  `Case.'
Case.
  `I'm the Finn,' said the Finn, and made a warning face at
found the old-fashioned switch.
`Turn the lights on, okay?'  Case scrambled off the slab and
the dark...'  A squat figure stepped in and closed the door. 
  `Christ,' said a hoarse voice, `I know that bitch can see in
as the door opened, expecting to see Molly or Armitage.
  `So open it.'  Case pulled the silk from his face and sat up
program.'
twice.  `Entry requested,' it said.  `Subject is cleared per my
  The security package taped to the steel firedoor bleeped
silk sleeping bag over his head.
tables and collapsed across the bedslab, pulling Molly's black
five hours.  He carried the Ono-Sendai to one of the new work-
was dark.  He checked the time.  He'd been in cyberspace for
  Molly was gone when he took the trodes off, and the loft

face.
distant fingers caressing the deck, tears of release streaking his
  And somewhere he was laughing, in a white-painted loft,
of military systems, forever beyond his reach.
America, and high and very far away he saw the spiral arms
thority burning beyond the green cubes of Mitsubishi Bank of
stepped scarlet pyramid of the Eastern Seaboard Fission Au-
3D chessboard extending to infinity.  Inner eye opening to the
unfolding of his distanceless home, his country, transparent
  And flowed, flowered for him, fluid neon origami trick, the
gray.  Expanding --
  Disk beginning to rotate, faster, becoming a sphere of paler
  _Now --_
  A gray disk, the color of Chiba sky.
  Please, he prayed, _now --_
faces, a blurred, fragmented mandala of visual information.
past like film compiled from random frames.  Symbols, figures,
boiling in from the edge of space, hypnagogic images jerking
  And in the bloodlit dark behind his eyes, silver phosphenes
  Found the ridged face of the power stud.
  He closed his eyes.
with a yellow-headed drawing pin through the hole at its center.
wall, just above the Sony, he'd hung her gift, tacking it there
shuriken burning with reflected neon.  He glanced up; on the
it, seeing instead the shop window on Ninsei, the chromed
dermatrodes.  He stared at the deck on his lap, not really seeing
band across his forehead, careful not to disturb the flat Sendai
  `No.  Stay, doesn't matter.'  He settled the black terry sweat-
easier for you, alone...'  He shook his head.
Molly beside him.  `You want me to go out, Case?  Maybe
  Wednesday.  Eight days from waking in Cheap Hotel with
  `You want to try now, Case?'
lector cycled.  `Off,' he said to the Hosaka.
  `Kid's show.'  A discontinuous flood of images as the se-
lector.
  `What's that?' Molly asked, as he flipped the channel se-
receding...'
the mind, clusters and constellations of data.  Like city lights,
thinkable complexity.  Lines of light ranged in the nonspace of
from the banks of every computer in the human system.  Un-
matical concepts...  A graphic representation of data abstracted
operators, in every nation, by children being taught mathe-
sual hallucination experienced daily by billions of legitimate
trol circuits of tanks and war planes.  `Cyberspace.  A consen-
animals wired into test systems, helmets feeding into fire con-
arithmic spirals; cold blue military footage burned through, lab
generated ferns, demonstrating the spacial possibilities of log-
sional space war faded behind a forest of mathematically
perimentation with cranial jacks.'  On the Sony, a two-dimen-
the voice-over, `in early graphics programs and military ex-
  `The matrix has its roots in primitive arcade games,' said


  She laughed.  `You got it, cowboy.'
  Case looked at her.  `I gotta lotta choice, huh?'
Partners?'
catlike.  `So we got an axis going, boy?  We're together in this? 
She made a face.  `Godawful.'  She stood up and stretched,
  `Dunno.  But he's one sick fuck, no lie.  I saw his profile.' 
  `Where's he?'
of Peter Riviera.  Real ugly customer.'
  `Toys.  Mostly for you.  And one certified psychopath name
  `What else is on that list you mentioned?'
sure.'
bad.  Besides, you're a clever john, no?  You can winkle him,
  `Maybe.  Maybe not.  I think he needs you, Case, and real
  `He'd kill me.'
She smiled.
aren't you?  I mean, maybe you could have a little look around.' 
her nails on the back of the chair.  `But you _are_ a cowboy,
shrugged.  `Big deal.  And starters is all I got.'  She drummed
doesn't look like any of the pics of the guys who got out.'  She
Screaming Fist.  I checked.  But that doesn't mean much.  He
  `For starters, nobody named Armitage took part in any
tage.'
  He stared at her.  `So tell me what you know about Armi-
gotta tussle.'
what they do, that's what they _are,_ right?  You gotta jack, I
  `I'm an easy make.'  She smiled.  `Anybody any good at
  `So what's Armitage got dissolving inside you?'
him.  Got it?'
be our tech here, so when he shows up later, you never saw
This privacy biz is a sideline.  But I got Armitage to let him
  `Finn's an old connection of mine.  Fence, mostly.  Software. 
who's the weird little gopher outside in the hall?'
  `Yeah, it's all weird.  You're weird, this hole's weird, and
get us the Flatline and nothing else.  Weird.'
too.  Steal that and we'd be richer than shit.  But no, we gotta
got all their new material for the fall season locked in there
town.  Tighter than an eel's ass, Case.  Now, Sense/Net, they
line's construct.  Sense/Net has it locked in a library vault up-
gonna be pulling one hardcore run, Case, just to get the Flat-
  `Don't let me hurt your feelings.'  She grinned.  `We're
body big.'
  `Obviously makes sense to somebody,' he said.  `Some-
nose.
good, but not _that_ good...'  She scratched the side of her
market was ready to pay for that surgical program.  You were
We coulda bought twenty world class cowboys for what the
belt, and trade a program for the operation that'll fix him up. 
pillhead who's making one last wobble through the burnout
ders.  Like something tells him to go off to Chiba, pick up a
a government, or some Yakuza subsidiary.  Armitage gets or-
Armitage since I signed on.  But it doesn't feel like a zaibatsu,
  `Look, Case, I been trying to suss out who it is is backing
  `Flatlined on his EEG.  Showed me tapes.  Boy, I was _daid.'_
  She nodded.
the best.  You know he died braindeath three times?'
  `Well, if we can get the Flatline, we're home free.  He was
  `No such luck.  He's in Europe.  He doesn't come into this.'
  `Quine dead too?'
  `Sense/Net.  Paid him mega, you bet your ass.'
it.  He'd never have sat still for it.'
Now Case sat, and rested his elbows on the table.  `I can't see
  `Somebody's got a recording of McCoy Pauley?  Who?' 
way.  Real asshole.'
you the ropes, huh?  Him and Quine.  I know Quine, by the
  `You'll be working with his construct.'  She smiled.  `Taught
  He nodded.  `Heart, I heard.'
  `You know that the Dixie Flatline's dead?'
nervous.
guess.  I'm good at what I do.'  The present tense made him
  `No.'  He watched his reflection in her glasses.  `I could.  I
our shopping list, once.  You ever work with the dead?'
  `Yeah.  I saw your profile, Case.  And I've seen the rest of
  `And you're saying this isn't for his benefit?'
  `Working for Armitage.'
  `What are we doing?'
  `What we're doing.'
  `What about?'
forearms.  `We talk now.  This is as private as I can afford.'
the white chairs around and sat on it, chin resting on crossed
  They sealed the door behind him and Molly turned one of
the second.'
  `Hey, that's fine by the Finn, Moll.  You're only paying by
want full screen for as long as we want it.'
  `Just for as long as it takes you to leave, Finn.  Then we'll
no cortex bombs.  You want me to shut the screen down?'
teeth.  `Nah.  Finn's word, sweetmeat, you got no little bugs,
run a little biopsy.'  He laughed, showing more of his yellow
  `You think this is the Mayo?  Climb on the table, kid, we'll
and took off the dark glasses.
  `You read for biologicals?'  Molly unzipped her green vest
work, is all.'
  `Guy's a virgin.'  The man shrugged.  `Some cheap dental
white floor.  `Turn around.  Slow.'
  `Get over here, Case.'  He saw a scuffed X in black on the
that's your business, right?  Same with your claws.'
otropic carbons.  Better biocompatibility with pyrolitics, but
Your glasses gimme the read they always have, low-temp is-
head, yeah.  Silicon, coat of pyrolitic carbons.  A clock, right? 
from his pocket and squinted at it.  `Something new in your
stands studded with sensors.  The man took a small monitor
sixty.'  Case watched her rotate between two fragile-looking
Straighten up, yeah.  Now turn around, gimme a full three-
  `So get over there between the pylons.  Stand on the tape. 
  `We need a scan, Finn.  For implants.'
know the rate, Moll.'
  `Time,' the man said, straightening up, `and counting.  You
began to purr.
secured it with a white velcro border.  A hidden exhaust fan
it and position it in the doorway.  Quick, nicotine-stained fingers
of circuitry, nearly a centimeter thick.  He helped the man lift
doorway.  Case crossed to it and saw that it was a solid sandwich
to Case, pointed at a slab of white plastic that leaned near the
blinked, and dropped the gun into a jacket pocket.  He gestured
a handgun of some kind in his left hand.  He peered at them,
sharply backward.  He wore an ancient tweed jacket and held
revealed in something that wasn't quite a smile, were canted
plastered flat against his narrow skull, and his large front teeth,
have been designed in a wind tunnel.  His ears were very small,
them, the blanket draping one shoulder like a cape, seemed to
  The man who stood blinking now in the doorway behind
wooden table and four white folding chairs.
small raised disks.  In the center stood a square, white-painted
floored with white hospital tile molded in a nonslip pattern of
  Four square walls of blank white plastic, ceiling to match,
a doorway.  White light flooded out as Molly ducked past it.
  The tunnel ended with an ancient Army blanket tacked across
back.
scrap.  He heard the door close behind them.  He didn't look
he followed her back through a narrow canyon of impacted
into the open area, flesh of lost summers staring blindly up as
alloy tubing.  An enormous pile of old magazines had cascaded
tenna, a brown fiber canister stuffed with corroded lengths of
with the glass stumps of vacuum tubes, a crumpled dish an-
back into the mass: the guts of a television so old it was studded
could pick out individual objects, but then they seemed to blur
had grown there, a fungus of twisted metal and plastic.  He
of crumbling paperbacks.  The junk looked like something that
tangles of junk rising on either side to walls lined with shelves
led him into the smell of dust.  They stood in a clearing, dense
ing the tip of the forefinger.  The door swung inward and she
he couldn't follow.  He caught the sign for _cash,_ a thumb brush-
Molly's hands flowed through an intricate sequence of jive that
  The door was a sheet of corrugated roofing.  In front of it,
HOLOGRAFIX.
  Something was moving in the shadows behind METRO
Maintaining connections.
taking care of business, usually with no more than a nod. 
led him through a dozen bars and clubs he'd never seen before,
dead sign.  Her Sprawl wasn't his Sprawl, he decided.  She'd
overlap in the domes.  Case peered through the window at the
in the East side; something to do with convection, and an
newsprint went cartwheeling past the intersection.  Freak winds
  He looked around the deserted dead end street.  A sheet of
California he'd never heard of.
season's fashions, about sports, about a political scandal in
for silence were all he'd gotten in reply.  She talked about the
where they were going and why; jabs in the ribs and the sign
had lodged between his front teeth.  He'd given up asking her
capitals of glass tubing.  Case picked at a shred of bacon that
  Lifeless neon spelled out METRO HOLOGRAFIX in dusty

and get us a real breakfast.'
krill for so long.  Yeah, come on, we'll tube in to Manhattan
bacon.  Probably kill you, you been eating that rebuilt Chiba
for silence.  `We're gonna get some breakfast, okay?  Eggs, real
  `Professional pride, baby, that's all.'  And again the sign
kinked?'
  `So what's he got on you?  How's he got the working girl
it was pornographic.'  She laughed.
care that much anyway.  I saw you stroking that Sendai; man,
scan.'  Then her fingers moved again: wait.  `And you don't
for silence.  `That kind of kink's too subtle to show up on a
  `No,' she said, her right hand coming up to form the jive
  `You know any way I can find out?'
  `Maybe, maybe not.  Works either way.'
the fountain.  She shook her head.  `You think it's true?'
  `You know about that toxin shit, before?' he asked her, by
her mirrored insets.
a huge pair of black plastic sunglasses that completely covered
old surplus vest with a dozen oddly shaped pockets and put on
it.  Let's go down to the street.'  She'd zipped herself into an
  `He likes hotels.  Big ones.  Near airports, if he can manage
  `Where'd he go?'  Case had asked Molly.
mitage had only waited for Case's approval of each piece.
dozen disks of corporate-grade ice; a Braun coffeemaker.  Ar-
year's most expensive Hosaka computer; a Sony monitor; a
film and hundreds of tiny foam beads.  The Ono-Sendai; next
white forms of the foam packing units, with crumpled plastic
Cyberspace 7.  They'd left the place littered with the abstract
  With his deck waiting, back in the loft, an Ono-Sendai
the smell of fast food and perfume and fresh summer sweat.
Ninsei.  This was different commerce, a different rhythm, in
the thin black denim.  Nothing here like the electric dance of
  He shifted on the concrete, feeling it rough and cool through
glow of the dawn geodesics.
fighting on a rooftop at seventeen, silent combat in the rose
face smooth and cryptic beneath red glasses.  Case remembered
street boy, hands relaxed and ready at his sides; then a teenager,
tulate the stages of his life.  First a child with hooded eyes, a
concrete fountain, letting the endless stream of faces recapi-
  He sat beside Molly in filtered sunlight on the rim of a dry
of need and gratification.
blown grass, a field of flesh shot through with sudden eddies
  Summer in the Sprawl, the mall crowds swaying like wind-

on.  You'll enjoy this, Case.  Like Christmas morning.'
you find there.'  Armitage handed him the magnetic key.  `Go
  `Now go down to the freight elevator and bring up the cases
  Case looked at Molly.  She shrugged.
us as badly as you did when we scraped you up from the gutter.'
where I found you.  So you see, Case, you need us.  You need
need a blood change.  Otherwise, the sacs melt and you're back
will dissolve the bond without opening the sacs.  Then you'll
that's all.  Do the job and I can inject you with an enzyme that
  `You have time to do what I'm hiring you for, Case, but
  Case blinked up at the smiling mask.
one your former employers gave you in Memphis.'
already familiar with the effect of that mycotoxin.  It was the
definitely are dissolving.  Each one contains a mycotoxin.  You're
main arteries, Case.  They're dissolving.  Very slowly, but they
  `You have fifteen toxin sacs bonded to the lining of various
was smiling.
  `How's that?'  Case looked up from his coffee.  Armitage
  `Good, because you have a new one.'
  `Thanks, but I was enjoying that dependency.'
frees you from a dangerous dependency.'
  `You needed a new pancreas.  The one we bought for you
  `Should I?'  Case blew noisily on his coffee.
me.'
front of Case.  `You're a lucky boy, Case.  You should thank
  Armitage closed the door and crossed the room, to stand in
my pancreas, that's like a cop routine.'
steaming mug of coffee.  `That number you had them do on
security,' Case added uncomfortably.  Molly handed him a
  `Lots of Forces types wound up cops, I mean.  Or corporate
tion.
heightened the effect of a mask.  Case began to regret the ques-
decade's leading media faces.  The pale glitter of his eyes
the cosmetic boutiques, a conservative amalgam of the past
handsome, inexpressive features offered the routine beauty of
of soft black calf.  The Special Forces earring was gone.  The
wore a somber Italian suit; in his right hand he held a briefcase
ders and military posture he seemed to fill the doorway.  He
  Armitage was no taller than Case, but with his broad shoul-
he sat, his back against a wall.
  `You ever the heat, Mr.~ Armitage?' Case asked, from where
baggy black cotton pants.
  `Suit yourself.'  She wore a dark mesh t-shirt tucked into
  `No,' he said, closing the door.  `I want it tight.'
perimeter, screamers...'
  `I can do it,' she said.  `I got enough gear already.  Infrascan
German stove she took from her bag.
magnetic key in his hand.  Molly was making coffee on a tiny
said.  He stood in the open doorway with an old-fashioned
  `Someone's coming later to secure the place,' Armitage

sleepily scratching her stomach with burgundy nails.
at 'em.'  He turned and saw her sitting crosslegged on the bed,
  `Souvenir,' Molly said.  `I noticed you were always looking
star fell -- to stick upright in a crack in the parquet.
  The paper tore when he picked it up; a bright nine-pointed
paper.
discovered a flat, origami-wrapped package, recycled Japanese
with French and Italian labels.  Beneath a green t-shirt, he
didn't remember buying: books, tapes, a simstim deck, clothing
sive-looking gadgets.  The second was stuffed with things he
opened was Molly's: neatly folded clothing and small expen-
lay at his feet, and knelt beside the bags.  The first one he
  He stood, pulling on a wrinkled pair of new black jeans that
blurred dream.  Shopping.  She'd taken him shopping.
to a bar she knew on a Damrak thoroughfare.  Paris was a
cryptic foray, the two of them walking alone past Dam Square
canal's edge with orange juice and eggs.  Armitage off on some
of the Centrum, buildings centuries old.  Molly back from the
remembered Amsterdam, another room, in the Old City section
of wood, some missing, others loose.  His head ached.  He
  He swung his feet to the floor.  It was made of little blocks
  He was home.
art.
in the interzone where art wasn't quite crime, crime not quite
kind of room, this kind of building; the tenants would operate
less layers of white latex paint.  Factory space.  He knew this
white-painted steel firedoor.  The walls were coated with count-
identical, that lay beside it.  Blank walls, no windows, a single
from the wide pink bedslab and two nylon bags, new and
  The room was large.  He sat up.  The room was empty, aside
spare, neat, the muscles like a dancer's.
functional elegance of a war plane's fusilage.  Her body was
breathe, her breasts, the sweep of a flank defined with the
centimeters of the floor.  He lay on his side and watched her
board, a fat gray cable emerging there to dangle within a few
One half-meter square of glass had been replaced with chip-
sunlight filtered through the soot-stained grid of a skylight. 
across an expanse of very new pink temperfoam.  Overhead,
  Opening his eyes, he saw Molly, naked and just out of reach
rise from the cracks in the dessicated parquet floor.
Vibration reached the room where he lay and caused dust to
placed air made the tunnel sing, bass down into subsonics. 
itself was silent, gliding over its induction cushion, but dis-
train drove a column of stale air through a tunnel.  The train
  Somewhere down in the Sprawl's ferro-concrete roots, a
vodka at some kiosk, an hour before dawn.
Orly...  He watched himself buy a flat plastic flask of Danish
moving ahead of him through the concourses of Narita, Schipol,
  Case woke from a dream of airports, of Molly's dark leathers

parks ringing the old core of Atlanta...
midtown Manhattan, outlines of hundred-year-old industrial
bytes per second, you begin to make out certain blocks in
Each pixel a million megabytes.  At a hundred million mega-
Your map is about to go nova.  Cool it down.  Up your scale. 
pulse, the rate of traffic threatening to overload your simulation. 
Manhattan and Atlanta burn solid white.  Then they start to
thousand megabytes a single pixel on a very large screen. 
  Program a map to display frequency of data exchange, every
ropolitan Axis.
  Home was BAMA, the Sprawl, the Boston-Atlanta Met-
  Home.

        3


        THE SHOPPING EXPEDITION
        PART TWO



shoals of waste.
ogies.  Then a mist closed over the black water and the drifting
The last Case saw of Chiba were the dark angles of the arcol-
to the port.  Armitage was waiting.  He'd chartered a hovercraft. 
  After the postoperative check at the clinic, Molly took him

shadows, someone made wet sounds and died.
He saw that her hands were sticky with blood.  Back in the
  She passed him a blood-flecked bag of preserved ginger. 
`who sent them?'
  Case felt as though his brain were jammed.  `Who,' he said,
mouth was hard, lips pressed into a thin line.
it.  Coincidence we were here, but I had to make sure.'  Her
money...  I got the one who had the laser to tell me all about
Just cheaper for them to kill her and take it.  Save a little
said they got on to her when she was trying to fence your RAM. 
He'd fry anybody, for a few New ones.  The one back there
got a partial profile on that old bastard when we did you, man. 
haven't done too well for friends in this town, have you?  We
`Friends of your tight friend.  Killed your girl for you.  You
thing was dying.  She stopped him with a hand on his chest. 
  He tried to walk past her, back into the dark, where some-
  `Fight's over, Case.  Time to go home.'
  He shook his head.
  Something mewled and bubbled in the dark behind her.
okay?'
  `Case.'  Her mirrors emerged from deeper shadow.  `You
metal pipe.  Tang of hashish.  Case walked on, feeling nothing.
in the glare of a match, lips pursed around the short stem of a
image above the ring.  Once a seamed European face danced
walking.  Past unseeing faces, every eye raised to the victor's
  Follow the wall.  Curve of concrete.  Hands in pockets.  Keep
sneaker had come off, somehow, and lay beside her head.
beer vendor was wiping his taps with a dark rag.  One white
cooked meat.  The crowd was chanting the winner's name.  A
foot of a concrete pillar, eyes closed.  There was a smell of
his chest.  Nothing.  He found her.  She was thrown down at the
looked down, expecting to see that needle of ruby emerge from
  He was walking toward the stalls, into the shadows.  He
legs.
The boy coughed once, convulsively, and toppled across Case's
explosions.  Molly's fletchettes, at twenty rounds per second. 
  The face was erased in a humming cloud of microscopic
throat like a dowser's wand.
past them into the dark.  Case saw the razor dipping for his
from his sleeve.  A razor, etched in red as a third beam blinked
to the cheering crowd.  The boy smiled and drew something
over him.  Above the stage, a figure turned, knife held high,
blond hair lit from behind in a rainbow nimbus, was leaning
  He rolled and kicked, failing to connect.  A thin boy, spiked
  Someone tripped him.  Concrete tore his palms.
bobbing in his vision as he ran.
and again the ghost line of the laser branded across his eye,
  Her white sneakers flashing, close to the curving wall now,
concrete beneath the thin soles of his shoes.
  Afterimage of a single hair-fine line of red light.  Seared
never be sure.
and ran after her.  He might have called her name, but he'd
  Pure mindless reflex: he threw the beer and chicken down
  And gone.  Into shadow.
tigues.
her gray eyes blind with fear.  She wore the same French fa-
a deep breath, opened them, and saw Linda Lee step past him,
  Raw edge of vomit in his throat.  He closed his eyes, took
ure crumpled, the hologram fading, flickering...
now the crowd was screaming, rising, screaming -- as one fig-
  Blood sprayed from a jugular in a red gout of light.  And
tears blurred his vision.
money.  It was all some dream, some pathetic fantasy...  Hot
waiting in the Hilton with tickets and a new passport and
waiting, her eyes locked on the circling knives, no Armitage
operation hadn't worked.  He was still here, still meat, no Molly
trickle of sweat worked its way down and across his ribs.  The
  Then the fear began to knot between his shoulders.  A cold
  Shadows twisted as the holograms swung through their dance.
he'd see the matrix.
  Seven days and he'd jack in.  If he closed his eyes now,
down the skewers and over his knuckles.
that blood laced one figure's chest.  Thick brown sauce trickled
waxy cartons of beer.  Glancing up at the holograms, he saw
the food stalls.  He bought yakitori on skewers and two tall
  He'd made nearly a full circuit of the dome before he found
hymn, company funeral.
all your life for one zaibatsu.  Company housing, company
committee.  He wondered briefly what it would be like, working
meant the arena had the approval of some corporate recreational
City crowd.  Techs down from the arcologies.  He supposed that
  The crowd, he saw, was mostly Japanese.  Not really a Night
Too quiet.
  He turned and walked back into the shadows.  Too dark. 
  He didn't like this place.
contemplation of the dance.
  `I'll go find us some food,' Case said.  She nodded, lost in
and still, watching.
men waited for an opening.  Molly's upturned face was smooth
the arcs and passes of their dance, point passing point, as the
of their own accord, gliding with a ritual lack of urgency through
curled, thumb aligned with blade.  The knives seemed to move
fighter's grip is the fencer's grip, Case remembered, the fingers
the knives they held were just under a meter long.  The knife-
circled.  The holograms were ten-power magnifications; at ten,
  Reflected colors flowed across Molly's lenses as the men
breathing of the fighters.
sound but the muted purring of the blowers and the amplified
currents set up by the blowers that supported the dome.  No
of cigarette smoke rose from the tiers, drifting until it struck
ring, reproducing the movements of the two men below.  Strata
light but the holograms that shifted and flickered above the
circle ringed with a glittering thicket of projection gear.  No
Concrete sloped away in tiers to a kind of central stage, a raised
tense hush, the towering puppets of light beneath the dome. 
  None of that prepared him for the arena, the crowd, the
with the smell of sweat and concrete.
but most of them had been broken.  The air was damp and close
orescent rings were screwed to the plywood ceiling at intervals,
serving the pressure differential that supported the dome.  Flu-
corridor, with a door at either end, was a crude airlock pre-
taut gray fabric reinforced with a net of thin steel cables.  The
  Sammi's was an inflated dome behind a portside warehouse,
in a white t-shirt and baggy rugby shorts.
  An hour later, she was buying tickets from a skinny Thai
there.'
  `I'll pass,' Case said, `I hear they kill each other down
  `Sammi's,' Ratz said.
  Three beers later, she was asking Ratz about the fights.
  He did.  Nothing did.
  `Eat it.  Eat a dozen.  Nothing'll happen.'
  `Shit,' he said.  He looked at the octagon, then at her.
incapable of getting off on amphetamine or cocaine.'
the octagon with one burgundy nail.  `You're biochemically
Armitage had them designed to bypass that shit.'  She tapped
  `Your new pancreas, Case, and those plugs in your liver. 
  `How's that?  You want one?'  He held the pill out to her.
an octagon from the pocket of his jacket.
  `Wasting your time, cowboy,' Molly said, when Case took
taken her back to the Chat for a drink.
obviously longing for one of them to make a move.  Then he'd
grinned at Case's side with a kind of ecstatic feral intensity,
Wage had liked that, his boys had liked it less, and Molly had
paid off his debt to Wage with a roll of Armitage's New Yen. 
  They'd gone to the Namban, after he'd seen Deane, and
ing...
stubs and styrofoam cups, he'd sensed it.  Linda's death, wait-
along that corridor, shuffling through a trampled mulch of ticket
felt wrong from the start, that even as he'd followed Molly
  And later he'd tell himself that the evening at Sammi's had

  `Hardly, Case.  And goodbye.'
  `Thanks, Julie.  I owe you one.'
smile.  `Wonderful what a war can do for one's markets.'
  `Hardly.  Though I did see action.'  Deane smiled his pink
  `In the service, Julie?'
the gun down.  `Lovely place, Lisbon.'
  `I spent the war in Lisbon, you know,' Deane said, putting
whelming.
  Case nodded.  The smell of preserved ginger was over-
sniffed.  `Bloody hell.'
defense forces in the process.  Special Forces types.'  Deane
have entry codes, of course, and shot hell out of the Finnish
gunship.  Helicopter, you know.  Flew it back to Finland.  Didn't
I do think a few did.  One of the teams.  Got hold of a Sov
  `Christ,' Deane said, `it's been bloody years...  Though
  `Any of those guys make it out?'
shrugged.  `Turkey shoot for Ivan.'
weapons.  Sent these fellows in regardless, just to see.'  Deane
fenses, it came out later.  Knew about the emps, magnetic pulse
test some new technology.  They knew about the Russians'~ de-
scandal.  Wasted a fair bit of patriotic young flesh in order to
where was it, McLean?  In the bunkers, all of that... great
hell and back.  Your brass, Case, your Sprawlside brass in,
bloody postwar political football, that was.  Watergated all to
  `Famous.  Don't they teach you history these days?  Great
  `Screaming Fist.'
  `The war?  What's there to know?  Lasted three weeks.'
  `The war.  You in the war, Julie?'
it directly at Case.  `What sort of history?'
You said history.'  He picked up the gun again, but didn't point
the likes of me.  I wouldn't have it any other way.  Now, history. 
neon chrysanthemum have ways of screening their allies from
a temporary arrangement with the Yakuza, and the sons of the
as much as my net does, Case.  This gentleman seems to have
something out on a lap terminal.  `It seems as though you know
  Deane put the pistol down.  `Sit still, Case.'  He tapped
  `Gaijin name of Armitage, suite in the Hilton.'
  `Go-to on whom, old son?'
  `Me, Julie.  I'm leaving.  Gone.  But do me the favor, okay?'
cotton, the collar white and rigid, like porcelain.
  `What's moving, old son?'  Deane's shirt was candy-striped
  `I need a history lesson, Julie.  And a go-to on somebody.'
understand.  Nothing personal.  Now tell me what you want.'
strange in Dean's manicured pink hands.  `Just taking care, you
what looked like old masking tape.  Case thought it looked very
trigger guard had been cut away and the grips wrapped with
revolver with the barrel sawn down to a nub.  The front of the
aiming it carefully at Case.  It was a belly gun, a magnum
behind the exposed works of his old mechanical typewriter and
  `It's on all the time,' Deane said mildly, taking a gun from
said, taking his place in the swivel chair.
  `Turn on the works, Julie, all the stuff in the desk,' Case
  The bolts worked.  `Slowly, Case,' said the voice.
  `Julie, she's gone.  You wanna let me in?  Please, Julie?'
  `Keeping stranger company than usual, Case?' asked Julie.
out, past the stacked white modules of preserved ginger.
  `Why I'm doing you the favor.'  She turned and walked
  `What's that?'
you're at it, you try to figure something out.'
I'll come in and cool your tight friend permanently.  And while
  `Okay,' she said.  `Go.  But five minutes.  Any more and
other way.'
  `You can be sure of that, old son.  Wouldn't have it any
  `Hold on, Julie.  Anyway, I'll be coming in alone.'
cough seemed to hang in the air between them.
silicon in her head.  What is this about, exactly?'  Deane's ghostly
there is definitely armed, aside from having a fair amount of
  `Ah, Case, sport, it does look as though your companion
on the dust-covered Kandinsky coffee table.
check us out with your smuggler.'  She put a booted foot up
  `Bullshit.  Tight friends my ass.  You're going in there to
something else.'
friends die because you're too literal about your instructions is
  `What you're paid for is one thing.  Me letting some tight
  `Not what I'm paid for.'
By your clock, okay?'
hand on the shoulder of her black jacket.  `Five.  Five minutes. 
and Asakuza, and they'll go _down,_ understand?' he lied, his
  `I got people in Singapore, Tokyo connections in Shinjuku
  Her mouth hardened.  She shook her head.
you know?'
who'll just go under if I walk out of Chiba cold.  It's my people,
give two shits about.  He takes care of himself.  But I got people
  `The guy won't talk to me if you're there.  Deane I don't
stood beneath Deane's melting clock, hands on her hips.
  `Armitage won't like it, I let you out of my sight.'  She
flection in her glasses.  `I got biz to cancel out of.'
  `Well, I gotta see this guy,' Case said, watching his re-

  `Too soon to tell.'
  `Luck changing, my artiste?'
  `You see him, tell him I got his money.'
Molly.
  `Not tonight.'  Ratz made a point of raising an eyebrow at
  `You seen Wage, Ratz?'
ing twilight.  Ratz was tending bar.
and saw Zone watching over his girls in the warm, beer-smell-
the arcades and pachinko parlors.  Case glanced into the Chat
through the motions of the dance.  Waves of sound rolled from
  On Ninsei, a thinner, weekday version of the crowd went

against his hips.
hurricane corridors, and her inner thighs were strong and wet
matrix, where the faces were shredded and blown away down
orgasm flaring blue in a timeless space, a vastness like the
down on him again and again, until they both had come, his
convulsively.  She rode him that way, impaling herself, slipping
ing and receding.  She slid down around him and his back arched
images came pulsing back, the faces, fragments of neon arriv-
spread across the labia.  As she began to lower herself, the
over her, his thumb along the cleft of her buttocks, his fingers
  Now she straddled him again, took his hand, and closed it
prints.'
hardness of the implanted lenses.  `Don't,' she said, `finger-
She threw a leg across him and he touched her face.  Unexpected
down.  She struggled beside him until she could kick them away. 
  `It's okay,' she said, `I can see.'  Sound of the jeans peeling
the leather jeans and tugged it down.
hard nipples sliding wet across his cheek.  He found the zip on
against the foam, pulling her down, licking her breasts, small
to retreat.  He raised himself on one elbow, rolled, sank back
  His head throbbed, but the brittleness in his neck seemed
against the temperfoam.
softly with the movement.  Case shifted, feeling himself harden
her other hand on his neck.  The leather of her jeans creaked
She rocked there for a minute in the dark, erect above him,
and gently encircling his scrotum with thumb and forefinger. 
  She answered him by reaching back, between his thighs,
  `How come you're not at the Hilton?'
jeans cool against his skin.  Her fingers brushed his neck.
small of his back, kneeling on the temperfoam, the leather
fingers against the walls of the coffin.  She settled over the
  He lay on his stomach, arms stretched forward, tips of his
massage.'
Sprawl.'  She touched his shoulder.  `Roll over.  I give a good
out of here soon, man.  Amsterdam, Paris, then back to the
  `Hilton, selling beads to the natives or something.  We're
  `Where's Armitage?'
  `Home.  Cheap Hotel.'
  `Where are we?'
lay down again.
Besides, they figure it worked.  Check you in a day or so.'  He
fall out on the floor if you jacked in now.  Doctor's orders. 
`Sorry, hotshot.  Eight day wait.  Your nervous system would
  She laughed.  Small strong hands gripped his upper arms. 
for his clothes.  `I gotta know...'
  `I gotta punch deck,' he heard himself say.  He was groping
lukewarm water spraying his chest and thighs.
  He sat up and tried to sip from the bottle.  Gagged, coughed,
2:43:12 AM, Case.  Got a readout chipped into my optic nerve.'
up for the main show.'  She settled back beside him.  `It's
I dunno.  Lot of injections.  They didn't have to open anything
And some new tissue patched into your liver.  The nerve stuff,
too.  Blood 'cause you got a new pancreas thrown into the deal. 
  `That's where they replaced your fluid.  Changed your blood,
  `My back hurts.'
Microchannel image-amps in my glasses.'
She put the bottle in his hand.  `I can see in the dark, Case. 
her tear the foil seal from a bottle of water and drink.  `Here.' 
reaching across him.  A breast brushed his upper arm.  He heard
  `Case?  It's Wednesday, Case.'  She moved, rolling over,
shade beneath a bridge or overpass...
ragged Fuller domes, dim figures moving toward him in the
reformed: a flickering montage of the Sprawl's towers and
pulse of pain midway down his spine.  Images formed and
  His neck was brittle, made of twigs.  There was a steady
  He woke and found her stretched beside him in the dark.

still full of endorphin inhibitors.'
hand.  `You don't lie still, I'll slit your fucking throat.  You're
  She was straddling his chest, a blue plastic syrette in one
  `Stop it, Case, I gotta find your vein!'
the matrix, and he glimpsed the shuriken, his stars.
  Where the sky faded from hissing static to the noncolor of
  Goddamn don't you move.
and the prison of the skull.
whores, where the sky is poisoned silver, beyond chainlink
a hundred faces from the neon forest, sailors and hustlers and
  And Ratz was there, and Linda Lee, Wage and Lonny Zone,
  Hold still.  Don't move.

pain beyond anything to which the name of pain is given...
  Then black fire found the branching tributaries of the nerves,
  Voices.
fading down corridors of television sky.
  Lost, so small amid that dark, hands grown cold, body image
  Cold steel odor.  Ice caressed his spine.

clinic without waiting to see if Case would follow.
meet you.'  The technician bowed, turned, and reentered the
  `If you'll come in now, sir, the anesthetist is waiting to
girl with a gymnast's body and conjurer's hands.
mitage's call.  Now this quiet courtyard, Sunday afternoon, this
He'd avoided Night City.  He'd waited in the coffin for Ar-
chainlink.  If she'd followed him, she'd done a good job of it. 
security perimeter, watching the gulls turn circles beyond the
Then he'd taken a long and pointless walk along the port's
morning, he'd gone back to Cheap Hotel and slept for ten hours. 
  He stared at the twin mirrors.  Leaving the Hilton, Saturday
we're really working for.'
  `I don't know, exactly.  I know I don't know who or what
  `What's that mean?'
She shrugged.
her mouth.  `Or maybe, maybe something's on to him...' 
gets more all the time.'  Case noticed a certain tension around
He's got big money now, and he's never had it before, and he
  `Well, I'll tell you, the man's definitely on to something. 
erating table.
of German steel that looked as though it belonged on an op-
Yeheyuan from the pack and she lit it for him with a thin slab
  `You want to answer my question?'  He fished a wrinkled
search his pockets for cigarettes.  `In your shirt,' she said.
of the gravel waves with the toes of his shoes.  He began to
  Case sat on one of the boulders, scuffing at the symmetry
righted it.
carapace.  The thing fell on its back, but the bronze limbs soon
it with a smooth precision, the silver boot-tip clanging on the
ass.'  The crab had altered course to avoid her, but she kicked
  `What I always think about first, Case, is my own sweet
froze for an instant, analyzing data obtained.
it was within a meter of her boots, it fired a burst of light, then
bronze carapace might have been a thousand years old.  When
toward them, picking its way over the waves of gravel.  Its
  `How about him?  He okay, Molly?'  The robot crab moved
  `You're okay, Case.  What got you, it's just called bad luck.'
  `You don't know me, sister.'
you're wired.'
  `It's like I know you.  That profile he's got.  I know how
  `What's funny?'
  `Funny, Case.'
  He nodded.
  `For somebody else.  Working girl, you know?'
  `What about before that?'
  `Couple of months.'
him?'
  `You're street samurai,' he said.  `How long you work for
quicksilver, regarding him with an insect calm.
were sheathed in bright Mexican silver.  The lenses were empty
lacquered heels of cherry red cowboy boots.  The narrow toes
beltloops of her leather jeans and rocked backward on the
got any idea what that's worth?'  She hooked thumbs in the
it.  He'll put them three years ahead of the competition.  You
you with the program he's giving them to tell them how to do
mitage has.  Like he's gonna pay these nerve boys for fixing
  `It'll work Case.  You got no idea, the kind of stuff Ar-
bamboo.
A gardener, a thing like a large metal crab, was tending the
a stand of green bamboo, black gravel raked into smooth waves. 
and he stood with Molly in a sort of courtyard.  White boulders,
  `Scared, Case.  You're real scared.'  It was Sunday afternoon
in Chiba.
membered the place from the round he'd made his first month
of sleek pavilions separated by small formal gardens.  He re-
  The clinic was nameless, expensively appointed, a cluster

  He was still shivering.  He couldn't stop shivering.
  `Terms,' Case said, `and now.  Right now.'
like some expensive puzzle.  `He's coming apart at the seams.'
her futon, the components of the fletcher spread on the silk
  `Let the man get some sleep, Armitage,' Molly said from
  `Not very different than what you're used to, Case.'
  `Then I'd ask what your terms were.'
  Armitage nodded.
  `I'd say you were full of shit.'
  Case looked out over the Bay and shivered.
  `What would you say, Case?'
over.
always ended in these freezeframes, and now this one was
soon he'd wake.  Armitage wouldn't speak again.  Case's dreams
heavy.  A statue.  He knew now that this was a dream, and that
if he were carved from a block of metal; inert, enormously
neural damage, Case?'  Armitage suddenly looked to Case as
  `What would you say if I told you we could correct your
  ``We.''  He met the faded blue eyes.  ``We' who?'
pancreas inside a year.'
outside.  And our medical projection says you'll need a new
You're suicidal, Case.  The model gives you a month on the
of your aliases and ran the skim through some military software. 
  `We've built up a detailed model.  Bought a go-to for each
  `Profile?'
you when you're not looking.'
  `Our profile says you're trying to con the street into killing
`That's where I live now.'
anybody else.'  He crossed to the window and looked down. 
is all.  I'm never gonna punch any deck again, not for you or
rich enough to hire expensive razorgirls to haul my ass up here,
  `You got zip to do with me and my kind buddy.  You're
kind.'
  `I was there, Case; I was there when they invented your
be going...'
  `Problem is, mister, I'm no jockey now, so I think I'll just
  `Ice from _ICE,_ intrusion countermeasures electronics.'
  `Icebreakers,' Case said, over the rim of the red mug.
was the first generation of real intrusion programs.'
jockey.  We were running a virus called Mole.  The Mole series
module was a Nightwing microlight, a pilot, a matrix deck, a
Fist.  For the assault on the Kirensk computer nexus.  Basic
you use to crack industrial banks were developed for Screaming
  `You're a console cowboy.  The prototypes of the programs
  Case shrugged, sipped coffee.
made it back to Helsinki, Case.'
and looked out over Tokyo Bay.  `That isn't true.  One unit
  He sensed abrupt tension.  Armitage walked to the window
got out.'
nexus with virus programs.  Yeah, I heard about it.  And nobody
  `Some kind of run, wasn't it?  Tried to burn this Russian
  `Screaming Fist, Case.  You've heard the name.'
  `What's that supposed to mean?'
Siberia.  We invented you in Siberia, Case.'
A heavy gold bracelet flashed on his wrist.  `Leningrad, Kiev,
mitage ran a large hand back through his cropped brown hair. 
  `Too young to remember the war, aren't you, Case?'  Ar-
crossed to the table and refilled his cup.
without bothering to look at it.  Twin mirrors tracking as he
crosslegged on a silk futon and began to fieldstrip the fletcher
you're not going anywhere 'til Armitage has his say.'  She sat
  `Get your coffee, Case,' Molly said.  `You re okay, but
lobe.  Special Forces.  The man smiled.
ricepaper wall.  He saw the angular gold ring through the left
the scalding coffee.  Brown stain running down the imitation
  Case whipped his arm sideways and the man easily ducked
up, Case.  This is your lucky day, boy.'
hard.  Blue eyes so pale they made Case think of bleach.  `Sun's
the broad chest hairless and muscular, the stomach flat and
`My name is Armitage.'  The dark robe was open to the waist,
  `Case.'  He looked up, seeing the man for the first time. 
legs felt like they were made out of wood.
decided, slopping coffee into a bright red mug.  His arms and
with plain steel zips across each shoulder.  Bulletproof.  Case
black nylon shoulder rig.  She wore a sleeveless gray pullover
off her black jacket; the fletcher hung beneath her arm in a
  `Get some coffee in you.  Look like you need it.'  She took
balcony.
a low table by the sliding glass panels that opened onto a narrow
eight, half of a suite.  A white Braun coffeemaker steamed on
of the Chiba Hilton seemed enormous.  It was ten meters by
  After a year of coffins, the room on the twenty-fifth floor

        2



  She smiled.  The blades slowly withdrew.
burgundy nails.
centimeter scalpel blades slid from their housings beneath the
spread, and with a barely audible click, ten double-edged, four-
  She held out her hands, palms up, the white fingers slightly
taking one of the stupidest chances of your whole life.'
jacket.  `Because you try to fuck around with me, you'll be
  `That's fine, man.'  The fletcher vanished into the black
  `Hey, I'm very easy.  I'm a pushover, no problem.'
Case?  You look like you like to take stupid chances.'
to absorb light.  `If I put this dartgun away, will you be easy,
and a bulky black jacket cut from some matte fabric that seemed
the way I'm wired.'  She wore tight black gloveleather jeans
  `'Cept I do hurt people sometimes, Case.  I guess it's just
  `That's good.'
for.  Just wants to talk; is all.  Nobody wants to hurt you.'
Case.  My name's Molly.  I'm collecting you for the man I work
  `You.  One live body, brains still somewhat intact.  Molly,
hatch.
  `So what do you want, lady?'  He sagged back against the
showed up and you just fit me right into your reality picture.'
The nails looked artificial.  `I think you screwed up, Case.  I
fletcher were slender, white, tipped with polished burgundy. 
dark hair cut in a rough shag.  The fingers curled around the
grow from smooth pale skin above her cheekbones, framed by
gically inset, sealing her sockets.  The silver lenses seemed to
  She shook her head.  He realized that the glasses were sur-
  `You aren't with Wage?'
  `Linda said?  I never saw her before I came up here.'
  `Linda said you were gonna kill me.'
nunchucks.'
the arcade?  I had to mess up this rentacop came after me with
  `What got into you tonight?  Why'd you pull that scene at
  `Want some dry ice?  All I got, right now.'
  `No.'
back to him for half what I paid.  You want the money?'
  `I took it back to Shin, got my deposit.  Sold his bullets
were black, the heels of black boots deep in the temperfoam.
about the gun, man?'  She wore mirrored glasses.  Her clothes
  `She's gone.  Took your Hitachi.  Real nervous kid.  What
  He nodded.
  `That your girl?  Linda?'
  He did.
  `Hit that latch switch.'
`Where's Linda?'
  `That you in the arcade?'  He pulled the hatch down. 
muzzle of a flechette pistol emerged from her hands.
She had her knees up, resting her wrists on them; the pepperbox
  She sat with her back to the wall, at the far end of the coffin. 
night special you rented from the waiter?'
  `Close the hatch real slow, friend.  You still got that Saturday
in Cheap Hotel.  Fluorescents came on as he crawled in.
He knew where to rent a blackbox that would open anything
it up somehow when she'd fiddled it, he thought.  Beginner. 
  On the catwalk, he had trouble with the lock.  She'd messed
nodded.  `Thanks, asshole,' Case said.
his thumb.  `Silk.'  He smiled broadly.  The boy smiled back,
`Woman,' Case said, and drew a line across his forehead with
for you, say fifty New ones?'  The boy put down his book. 
Pretty lady came to visit, said she had my key.  Nice little tip
the plastic turf, `you don't need to tell me.  I know already. 
the desk.  Different textbook.  `Good buddy,' Case called across
  When he climbed out of the elevator, the same boy was on
about to rip him for the rest of what he had.
with the fifty; she'd almost turned it down, knowing she was
it for her, if she could find the right fence.  And that business
wanted a ticket home, and the RAM in his Hitachi would buy
it increasingly hard to maintain the sense of betrayal.  She just
the way down.'  But that wasn't it, really, and he was finding
`You fly away, honey.  Towns like this are for people who like
a street vendor's foam thimble and watched the sun come up. 
was already cold and dead.  He sipped thick black coffee from
the holograms were vanishing like ghosts, and most of the neon
  `Bitch,' he said to the rose tint over Shiga.  Down on Ninsei

his way past the plastic doors.
  He felt them watching as he crossed the room and shouldered
something like embarrassment.  `Artiste.  Go home.'
  `Go home,' said Ratz, shifting on the creaking chair with
other.  `I gotta see Shin, get my deposit back.'
and dropped them into one pocket, then put the pistol in the
He picked up the .22's magazine and the one loose cartridge
`Well, I had this fifty, but I gave it to somebody.'  He giggled. 
  `Yeah.'  He stood up and felt the Chat sway around him. 
bad.  Like hammered shit.  You better go somewhere and sleep.'
a gunmetal lapel.  `I mean, fine, this'll square us, but you look
  `You okay, Case?'  The flask had already vanished behind
roll in some RAM, but that's gone by now.'
Get you five hundred if you move it fast.  Had the rest of my
of his pocket and handed it to Wage.  `All I got.  Pituitaries. 
bag of wet sand settling behind his eyes.  He took the flask out
  Case felt the weight of the night come down on him like a
lap, lighting a cigarette.
on the edge of the bar now, the Smith & Wesson across his
  `Get him out of here,' Ratz called to Kurt, who was sitting
  The sailor moaned and vomited explosively.
  `Who told you, man?  Somebody trying to set you up?'
  Linda.
  `Who told you I was going to hit you, Case?' Wage asked.
of the chamber.
table.  Ratz held the gun in his claw and pumped the round out
to cover Wage.  The magazine of Case's pistol clattered on the
Smith & Wesson tracked the two to the door, then swung back
who was curled at the foot of a barstool.  The barrel of the
tirely deserted except for Kurt and a drunken sailor in khakis,
  Case watched as they crossed the bar, which was now en-
to the Namban.  Wait for me.'
you?'  Wage turned to the boy on his left.  `You two go back
you, you wig or something?  What's this shit I'm trying to kill
  `Look, Case, you tell me what the fuck is going on with
closed around the pistol and Case let his hand go limp.
Wage's crotch.  `I hear you wanna do me.'  Ratz's pink claw
  Case pulled the .22 out of his pocket and levelled it at
together.'
off.  We just wanna talk business.  Case and me, we work
  Wage coughed.  `So who's talking about taking anybody
You don't take anybody off in the Chatsubo.'
and he glowered at Wage and the joeboys, `should know better. 
  The bartender shrugged.  `Nothing, you owe me.  These,'
  `Hey, Ratz,' Case said, `I owe you one.'
  `Technically nonlethal,' said Ratz.
subsonic sandbag jellies.
a fist.  The skeletal magazine revealed five fat orange cartridges,
with a kilometer of glass filament, was wide enough to swallow
at the trio.  The thing's barrel, made of paper-thin alloy wrapped
zilian standing on the bar, aiming a Smith & Wesson riot gun
conversational.  Case glanced across the room and saw the Bra-
  `Don't bother aiming for the legs, Kurt,' Ratz said, his tone
that thing on me?'
  `Hey, sweetheart,' said one of the joeboys, `you wanna try
green plastic cascading onto the tabletop.  `You understand?'
Tsingtao beer.  Ratz crushed it smoothly, butts and shards of
ashtray was made of thick, shatterproof plastic, and advertised
tray in his pink plastic claw, `I want no trouble here.'  The
  `Gentlemen,' said Ratz, picking up the table's heaped ash-
  `How you doing, Case?'
and shoulders bulging with grafted muscle.
flanked by his joeboys, nearly identical young men, their arms
silk and a simple bracelet of platinum on either wrist.  He was
sea-green Nikon transplants.  Wage wore a suit of gunmetal
was a tanned and forgettable mask.  The eyes were vatgrown
  Case turned his head and looked up into Wage's face.  It
Too seldom do you honor us.'
ulator as if he expected it to be shaken.  `How great a pleasure. 
  `Herr Wage,' Ratz said, slowly extending his pink manip-
with sweat.
The speed sang in his head.  The pistol in his hand was slippery
  Case had a sudden flash of the shuriken in their window. 
you are about to.'
line.  He was looking past Case, toward the entrance.  `I think
  `Ah.'  Ratz's mouth narrowed, compressed into a single
  `I gotta talk to Wage.  Ratz, I...'
say.'
  `Crazy cut a security man.'  He shrugged.  `A girl, they
Somebody hurt?'
  `You hear anything about a fight in the arcade tonight, Ratz? 
ued.  `Listen to the fear.  Maybe it's your friend.'
  `Proof against fear and being alone,' the bartender contin-
  `Why don't you get off my case, Ratz?  You seen Wage?'
yes?'
built of booze and ups, sure.  Proof against the grosser emotions,
  `And you wander back and forth in this portable bombshelter
still in his pockets.
`Super fine.'  He sagged into the chair opposite Ratz, hands
  `I'm doing just fine,' said Case, and grinned like a skull. 
bad, friend artiste,' he said, flashing the wet ruin of his teeth.
and drank.  His shaven head was filmed with sweat.  `You look
silent drunks.  Ratz's plastic arm buzzed as he raised the pitcher
called Kurt was on the bar, tending a thin crowd of mostly
tilted against the wall on a creaking chair.  A Brazilian kid
a beer pitcher, his hundred and twenty kilos of doughy flesh
  Ratz was at a rear table, drinking Apollonaris water from
the aluminum flask.
in the pockets of his jacket: one held the rented pistol, the other
  Case walked into the Chat an hour before dawn, both hands

  `Iffy,' he said, `it's all looking very iffy tonight.'
at the cheap little pistol.
  `You shit,' Case said to the humming receiver.  He stared
  Snake Man hung up.
  `Oh, man, I really need the money bad...'
Can you front?'
  `I'm very glad to hear that.  We have a cash flow problem. 
  `I got the music you wanted.'  Glancing at the cooler.
on an extension.  `I've been expecting your call.'
  `Very good to hear from you,' said Snake Man, coming in
  `Snake Man there?'
  A woman answered, something in Japanese.
  He punched a Tokyo number in Shinjuku.
wasn't taking calls.
His buyer for the three megabytes of hot RAM in the Hitachi
number from memory.  He let it ring five times, then hung up. 
took the pink handset from its cradle and punched a Hongkong
opposite a panel listing house rules in seven languages.  Case
jacket.  The coffin's terminal was molded into one concave wall,
pocket and put it on top of the cooler.  Then he took off his
that was both floor and bed, Case took Shin's .22 from his
aluminum lab flask.  Crouching on the brown temperfoam slab
carefully wrapped in paper to delay evaporation, and a spun
cooler contained the remains of three ten-kilo slabs of dry ice,
pocket computer and a small white styrofoam cooler chest.  The
  There was nothing in Number 92 but a standard Hitachi
the manual latch.
the hatch shut behind him and slapping the panel that activated
of springs.  Fluorescents flickered on as he crawled in, pulling
thudded reassuringly and the hatch rose vertically with a creak
waited for verification from the house computer.  Magnetic bolts
under a meter and a half tall.  He fed his key into the slot and
were three meters long, the oval hatches a meter wide and just
edged his way along the third tier to Number 92.  The coffins
  The expansion-grate catwalk vibrated with his weight as he
without a key.
when it rained, but the coffins were reasonably difficult to open
cheap laminated matting that rattled in a strong wind and leaked
grass to the nearest ladder.  The compound was roofed with
Case nodded in the boy's direction and limped across the plastic
industrial scaffolding.  Six tiers of coffins, ten coffins on a side. 
The white fiberglass coffins were racked in a framework of
teenager sat behind a C-shaped console, reading a textbook. 
  Centered in the square carpet of green plastic turf, a Japanese
the place as some combination of lobby and lawn.
was ready for it.  He stepped out into the courtyard that served
As always, it came to a full stop with a violent jolt, but he
against the pistolgrip as the cage slowed with a gradual hiss. 
fifth floor, he saw the lights of Ninsei.  He drummed his fingers
of the cage was scratched and thumb-smudged.  As it passed the
  The elevator smelled of perfume and cigarettes; the sides
in cheaper places.
arrived in Chiba, but he'd never slept in Cheap Hotel.  He slept
  Case had rented a coffin here, on a weekly basis, since he'd
length of rigid magnetic tape.
climbed into the plastic cage and used his key, an unmarked
terthought, lashed to the building with bamboo and epoxy.  Case
transparent shaft.  The elevator, like Cheap Hotel, was an af-
an alley off Baiitsu, where an elevator waited at the foot of a
was always referred to as Cheap Hotel.  You reached it through
grams.  If the place had another name, Case didn't know it; it
main entrance offered CHEAP HOTEL under a cluster of ideo-
visible if you craned your neck.  An unlit neon sign near the
windows were dark now, but a faint glow from the roof was
a featureless ten-story office building in ugly yellow brick.  Its
it wouldn't wait.  A block down Baiitsu, toward the port, stood
and that was fine.  He had calls to make, biz to transact, and
Ninsei, then over to Baiitsu.  His tail, he'd decided, was gone,
  The pill lit his circuits and he rode the rush down Shiga to
Ninsei and dry-swallowed another octagon.
in the dark.  He'd consigned the cobra to a dump canister on
a raised dragon motif, something to run your thumb across
his jacket pocket.  The grips were bright red plastic molded in
made his way down Shiga from the sushi stall he cradled it in
it was a handgun and nine rounds of ammunition, and as he
to the simple Chinese hollowpoints Shin had sold him.  Still,
long rifle, and Case would've preferred lead azide explosives
the first shot, with a very rough pull.  It was chambered for .22
a South American copy of a Walther PPK, double-action on
  Shin's pistol was a fifty-year-old Vietnamese imitation of

He limped away down the alley, nursing his left ankle.
hand, and it took him a few seconds to remember what it was. 
count of twenty, then stood up.  The steel cobra was still in his
  The head was gone.  Case lay under the console for a long
Sprawl.
`Shit,' someone said, a woman, in the accent of the northern
still couldn't read the features.  Glint of silver across the eyes. 
fluorescents in the corridor, then vanished.  It returned, but he
  A head appeared, framed in the window, backlit by the
games.
oscillated, louder here, the rear wall dulling the roar of the
cubicle's window was a square of faint light.  The alarm still
chipboard; he rolled over, into the shadow of the console.  The
junked console.  He'd fallen face forward on a slab of soggy
framed a heap of discarded fiberoptics and the chassis of a
  A narrow wedge of light from a half-open service hatch
impact with pavement drove dull rods of pain through his shins.
falling, all before he was conscious of what he'd done.  The
blind with fear, his nerves screaming.  He was up, out, and
snapped the cobra into its handle and scrambled for the window,
  The last of his octagon-induced bravado collapsed.  He
scraped the matting.
beats of his heart.  And returning.  One, two, three.  A bootheel
  Passing his closed door.  Pausing for the space of three rapid
  And footsteps, unhurried, coming closer.
other crash.
shouting something in Japanese.  A scream, shrill terror.  An-
  A crash, from the far end of the corridor.  A man's voice,
might die here.  They might have guns...
  This cubicle was the sort of place where people died.  He
almost forgotten what real fear was.
He'd lived for so long on a constant edge of anxiety that he'd
rapid mechanism of the dex-paranoia, but simple animal fear. 
came, it was like some half-forgotten friend.  Not the cold,
the crashing of the games, his heart hammering.  When the fear
  Nothing happened.  There was only the surging of the alarm,
shaft amplifying his pulse.
cobra's bronze pyramid began to bob gently, the spring-steel
he'd gone through the one he'd kicked half off its hinges.  The
  With the door closed, he was counting on his tail to assume
full extension.
  Case turned, pulled his jacket on, and flicked the cobra to
of the corridor.
triggered either by the broken window or by the girl at the head
Over the muted chaos of the games, an alarm began to cycle,
It split, requiring two more blows to free it from the frame. 
out of his jacket, bundled it around his right hand, and punched. 
  The window was a single pane of cheap plastic.  He shrugged
of an electric fan.
a pile of discarded food containers, and the bladeless nacelle
a snakelike loop of fiberoptics protruding from a wall socket,
the arcade, filtering in through sootblown plastic.  He made out
long gone.  No terminal, nothing.  Light from the alley behind
suga, but whatever front company Matsuga had operated was
was inside.  This was where he and Wage had met with Mat-
leaning in with everything he had.  Something snapped, and he
to its right, both hands around the transparent plastic knob,
white curve of a terminal housing.  Then he was on the door
hardware failing from the splintered frame.  Darkness there, the
lacquered composition door at the far end.  It popped, cheap
and slammed the sole of his nylon running shoe into the blue-
last two doors were closed and, he assumed, locked.  He spun
  Then he sprinted down the corridor, out of her sight.  The
  `Get your security up here,' Case told her.
ideograms.
travel poster of Greece, Aegian blue splashed with streamlined
t-shirt glanced up from a white terminal, behind her head a
One door was open now.  A Japanese girl in a sleeveless black
ting, the row of identical doors leading to tiny office cubicles. 
called Matsuga.  He remembered the hallway, its stained mat-
to discuss a deal in proscribed hormonal triggers with a man
of unpainted chipboard stairs.  He'd come here once with Wage,
mushroomed overhead.  He cut to the right and loped up a flight
drowning the arcade in white sound as a lurid hologram fireball
a ten-megaton hit on Tank War Europa, a simulated airburst
subsonics throbbing in the pit of his stomach.  Someone scored
through the entrance, the sound crashing over him like surf,
ors.  One of them screamed after him in Spanish.  Then he was
  He bolted across Ninsei, scattering a pack of strolling sail-
first met Linda Lee.
expect.  He was half a block from the games arcade where he'd
  Go it, Case, he told himself.  Suck 'em in.  Last thing they'll
flesh in the mazes of the black market...
around you the dance of biz, information interacting, data made
drift and skid, totally engaged but set apart from it all, and all
cell specialties.  Then you could throw yourself into a highspeed
matrix had once reminded him of proteins linking to distinguish
it was possible to see Ninsei as a field of data, the way the
in some desperate but strangely arbitrary kind of trouble, and
like a run in the matrix.  Get just wasted enough, find yourself
  Because, in some weird and very approximate way, it was
You're enjoying this, he thought; you're crazy.
the octagons and adrenaline mingling with something else. 
  His tail was back.  He was sure of it.  He felt a stab of elation,

  `See you, Lonny.'  Case left the bar.
up?'
he said, and raised an eyebrow.  `You wanna fuck somebody
lowered his gaze.  He saw the bulge of the steel whip.  `Cobra,'
enormous.  He stared into Case's face for a long time, then
less iris; under the drooping lids, his pupils were dilated and
`Big boys.  Graftees.'  Zone's eyes showed very little white and
indicate the effort it cost him to recall so much pointless detail. 
  `No,' Zone said at last, his smooth forehead creased to
maybe a black jacket?'
  `Got some joeboys with him?  One of 'em thin, dark hair,
  `Maybe in the Namban.  Maybe two hours ago.'
  `You sure, man?'
  Zone regarded him with his usual calm.  He shook his head.
  `You seen Wage tonight, Lonny?'
long face slack and placid.
bar.  Zone came drifting through the crowd in slow motion, his
Dancers.  Catching the pimp's eye, Case beckoned him to the
addicted to a brand of hypnotic the Japanese called Cloud
one of his girls went to work on a young sailor.  Zone was
resident pimp, was observing with glazed fatherly interest as
Ratz, but the bartender wasn't in sight.  Lonny Zone, the bar's
on them.  As Case pushed through the doors, he looked for
faded behind an influx of sailors and the specialists who preyed
ferent.  The regulars were still there, most of them, but they
attracted a related clientele.  Fridays and Saturdays were dif-
  The Chat wasn't really a dealing bar, but on weeknights it
made him feel better.
like it might clatter to the pavement with his next step, but it
his ribcage and the lining of his windbreaker.  The thing felt
across his stomach.  The pyramidal striking tip rode between
handle into the waistband of his jeans, with the tube slanting
way to conceal his cobra; finally he'd settled for tucking the
had spent ten minutes in a urinal, trying to discover a convenient
teeth tonight, and half the crowd wore filtration masks.  Case
shade of gray.  The air had gotten worse; it seemed to have
  Beyond the neon shudder of Ninsei, the sky was that mean

tightly wound coilspring slid out and locked.  `Cobra,' she said.
forefinger, and pulled.  Three oiled, telescoping segments of
tube with one hand, the pyramid between her other thumb and
end and a small bronze pyramid at the other.  She gripped the
him to examine, a dull steel tube with a leather thong at one
fingers stripped the paper from one.  She held the thing up for
tissue-wrapped cylinders.  He watched while mottled brown
coiled cobra with a swollen hood.  Inside were eight identical
lid was yellow cardboard, stamped with a crude image of a
  She brought an oblong box from beneath the counter.  The
  `No,' he said, `I don't like knives.'
  She gestured in the direction of a case filled with knives.
pocket and showed it to her.  `I want to buy a weapon.'
of science.  He took his slender roll of New Yen out of his
had a few years on old Deane, none of them with the benefit
  The Japanese woman behind the terminal looked like she
Starr, the best he'd been able to do for a passport.
chip that gave his name as Charles Derek May.  It beat Truman
  He bought two packs of Yeheyuans with a Mitsubishi Bank
display of shuriken.  He'd never thrown one in his life.
  He went into the shop without bothering to glance at the

radish cans.  `Two hour.'
  The waiter shrugged, replacing the taser behind the horse-
shoot somebody, understand?'
  `Shit.  I don't need that.  I need a gun.  Like I maybe wanna
New Yen.  Thirty deposit.'
package wrapped in gray plastic.  `Taser.  One hour, twenty
been filled with powdered horseradish.  He produced a slender
  Shin rummaged behind empty two-liter cans that had once
  `I need one now, man.  Got anything right now?'
`You come back, two hour.'
smell of fresh raw seafood at the rear of a Shiga sushi stall. 
  The boy smiled.  `Two hour.'  They stood together in the
  `Rent me a gun, Shin?'

  Then Case was running, bent low, dodging between bodies.
  And gone.
glasses, dark clothing, slender...
  Behind sailors in short-sleeved khaki.  Dark hair, mirrored
  There.
the reflection of the passing crowd.
  Without moving his head, he raised his eyes and studied
the thing around in your pocket?
while sweat coursed down his ribs, when you could just carry
chip.  Why bother with the surgery, he found himself thinking,
tattooed with a luminous digital display wired to a subcutaneous
The color of its skin reminded him of Zone's whores; it was
vatgrown flesh that lay on a carved pedestal of imitation jade. 
of his jacket, he stared through the glass at a flat lozenge of
boutique, closed for renovations.  With his hands in the pockets
window, he managed to pause by it.  The place was a surgical
the crowd carry him along.  When he saw a darkened display
narrow features in a mask of bored vacancy, pretending to let
octagons.  He fought the adrenaline surge and composed his
control.  But that could be quite a trick, behind a stack of
Case took for granted.  The trick lay in not letting it get out of
  The cultivation of a certain tame paranoia was something
and very close.
the sudden cellular awareness that someone was on his ass,
  He was less than a block from Deane's office when it hit,

pale silk tie.
  Deane's fingers came up to brush the perfect knot in his
  `Be seeing you, Julie.  I'll say hello to Wage.'
jammed with a fortune in debugging gear.
  `Loose lips, old son!'  Deane grinned.  The steel desk was
  `Out of the Nan Hai Hotel, Bencoolen Street?'
I'll let you in on a little something out of Singapore.'
unfounded rumor, old son, you come back in a week or so and
been discussing the price of ginger.  `If it proves to be an
  `Not that I know of.'  Deane shrugged.  They might have
  `Yeah.  He want to kill me, Julie?'
  `He's an important connection, Case.'
  `Things?'
being what they are, you understand.'
know, of course, I might not be in a position to tell you.  Things
  `Haven't been in touch, of late.'  Then he sighed.  `If I _did_
you?'
  `I do owe him a little money, Deane.  He say anything to
  `Not always that easy to know who your friends are, is it?'
  Case nodded.
of people?  Friends?'
  `People,' Deane said, around a ginger bonbon.  `What sort
  `People.'
  `Ah.  Well then.  And where did you hear this, if I may?'
I hear Wage wants to kill me.'
ran a thumb down the faded seam of one black jeans-leg.  `Julie,
the ginger, took a seat in a yawing wooden swivel chair, and
per.  `Try one.  Ting Ting Djahe, the very best.'  Case refused
Case a narrow bonbon wrapped in blue-and-white checked pa-
  `What brings you around, boyo?' Deane asked, offering
around to reassembling.
clockwork typewriter, a machine Deane never seemed to get
scrolls of yellowed printout, and various parts of some sort of
records of some kind.  The desktop was littered with cassettes,
thing, Case supposed, that had once been used to store written
ered cabinets made of some sort of pale wood.  The sort of
vast desk of painted steel, flanked on either side by tall, draw-
dark green glass.  The importer was securely fenced behind a
light cast by an ancient brass lamp with a rectangular shade of
  Deane's seamless pink face regarded Case from a pool of
the office itself seemed to belong to its start.
Deane's makeshift foyer suggested the end of the past century,
peeling self-adhesive capitals.  If the furniture scattered in
DEANE IMPORT EXPORT was lettered across the plastic in
imitation-rosewood door to the left of the bookcases.  JULIUS
  Magnetic bolts thudded out of position around the massive
voice.  `Do come in.'
  `You seem to be clean, old son,' said Deane's disembodied
modules that gave off the tang of preserved ginger.
time.  The room was stacked with white fiberglass shipping
volutions of the face as they rotated, but it never told the correct
floor.  Its hands were holograms that altered to match the con-
the bookcases, its distorted face sagging to the bare concrete
scarlet-lacquered steel.  A Dali clock hung on the wall between
perched awkwardly on a low Kandinsky-look coffee table in
where Case waited.  A pair of bulbous Disney-styled table lamps
Aztec bookcases gathered dust against one wall of the room
Deane had once intended to use the place as his home.  Neo- 
with a random collection of European furniture, as though
of which seemed to have been sparsely decorated, years before,
  His offices were located in a warehouse behind Ninsei, part
quartz and beveled like the mirrors in a Victorian dollhouse.
framed in spidery gold, ground from thin slabs of pink synthetic
ments of the previous century.  He affected prescription lenses,
seemed to consist entirely of meticulous reconstructions of gar-
seen him wear the same suit twice, although his wardrobe
his devotion to esoteric forms of tailor-worship.  Case had never
inhumanly patient, his primary gratification seemed to lie in
to Hongkong and order the year's suits and shirts.  Sexless and
of his DNA, a procedure unavailable in Chiba.  Then he'd fly
pilgrimage to Tokyo, where genetic surgeons re-set the code
and hormones.  His primary hedge against aging was a yearly
metabolism assiduously warped by a weekly fortune in serums
  Julius Deane was one hundred and thirty-five years old, his

know.'
  `Julie,' he said to his stars.  `Time to see old Julie.  He'll
destiny spelled out in a constellation of cheap chrome.
to Case that these were the stars under which he voyaged, his
bols.  They caught the street's neon and twisted it, and it came
fishline, their centers stamped with dragons or yinyang sym-
against scarlet ultrasuede with nearly invisible loops of nylon
water.  But the chrome stars held his gaze.  They were mounted
others black, others treated with a rainbow surface like oil on
him, steel stars with knife-sharp points.  Some were chromed,
riki chains, and shuriken.  The shuriken had always fascinated
knives, lighters, pocket VTRs, simstim decks, weighted man-
place sold small bright objects to the sailors.  Watches, flic-
  Case found himself staring through a shop window.  The
dozen cities.
thing back, once, and now he enjoyed steady connections in a
fronts and blinds.  Somehow Wage had managed to trace some-
hormones trickled down to Ninsei along an intricate ladder of
tablishment beyond Night City's borders.  Genetic materials and
managed to forge links with the rigidly stratified criminal es-
nine years in Chiba and one of the few gaijin dealers who'd
knew Wage hadn't liked that.  Wage was his primary supplier,
dular extract, retailing it for a wider margin than usual.  He
  The week before, he'd delayed transfer of a synthetic glan-
he felt the edge of a strange euphoria.
betrayal.  Now, sensing that its walls were starting to crumble,
had been cut out with lies, scooped out a night at a time with
had carved for himself in the criminal ecology of Night City
is to make himself a necessary evil.  The dubious niche Case
buyer nor the seller really needed him.  A middleman's business
insight into the dynamics of street dealing was that neither the
  But Linda said Wage wanted him dead.  Case's primary
biologicals, and they said you had to be crazy to do that.
make much sense, but then Wage dealt primarily in proscribed
Would Wage have him killed to make an example?  It didn't
  Was Linda right, he wondered, staring up at the lights? 
technology itself.
habitants, but as a deliberately unsupervised playground for
require outlaw zones, that Night City wasn't there for its in-
saw a certain sense in the notion that burgeoning technologies
historical park, a reminder of humble origins.  But he also
that the Yakuza might be preserving the place as a kind of
tolerated the Ninsei enclave, but Case tended toward the idea
  There were countless theories explaining why Chiba City
and commerce.
of hustler, all swarming the street in an intricate dance of desire
showing off grafts and implants, and a dozen distinct species
tourists hunting pleasures no guidebook listed, Sprawl heavies
a gaijin crowd.  Groups of sailors up from the port, tense solitary
  The sarariman had been Japanese, but the Ninsei crowd was
black clinic.
that would get you rolled in Night City, rolled straight into a
that monitored mutagen levels in the bloodstream.  Gear like
a certain level were implanted with advanced microprocessors
trouble.  If it wasn't, served him right.  M-G employees above
  Was it authentic?  If that's for real, he thought, he's in for
back of the man's right hand.
by, spotting the Mitsubishi-Genentech logo tattooed across the
arcade.  He stepped out of the way to let a dark-suited sarariman
coffee shop called Beautiful Girl, the electronic thunder of an
  He passed yakitori stands and massage parlors, a franchised
  Friday night on Ninsei.

saw her eyes reflected in a cage of red neon.
  He looked back as the plastic door swung shut behind him,
  He nodded, anxious to be gone.
pupils.  Sanpaku.  `You watch your back, man.'
  `Sure.'  A millimeter of white showed beneath each of her
  `I'll see you, Linda,' he said, getting up.
  `You get your money, Case, you find Wage quick.'
zippered pocket.
coming,' he lied, as he watched his New Yen vanish into a
  `I owe Wage a lot more than that.  Take it.  I got more
something he'd never seen there before.
was something in the gray eyes now that he couldn't read,
  `You need that, honey.  You better give it to Wage.'  There
under the table, folded it in quarters, and passed it to her.
coming up with a crumpled fifty.  He smoothed it automatically,
  `Here,' he said, and dug in the pocket of his windbreaker,
sweat.
hunched forward over the table.  Her face was filmed with
  `Sleep.'  She shook her head.  `Sure, Case.'  She shivered,
  `Sure.  How about you, Linda?  You got anywhere to sleep?'
be the example.  You seriously better watch it.'
  `Too many people owe him now, Case.  Maybe you get to
anyway.'  He shrugged.
  `I don't owe him enough.  He does me, he's out the money
  `No.  Mona.  Her new squeeze is one of Wage's boys.'
  `Who says?  Ratz?  You been talking to Ratz?'
you with a hole in your face.'  She lit her own cigarette.
  `Wage,' she said, narrowing her eyes.  `He wants to see
  All the meat, he thought, and all it wants.
fingers locked across the small of his back.
skin in the overheated darkness of a coffin near the port, her
wavelength of amphetamine.  He remembered the smell of her
wave of longing hit him, lust and loneliness riding in on the
  `Not if I remember to take my pills,' he said, as a tangible
microcircuits, or a city map.
a band of printed silk.  The pattern might have represented
corners of her mouth.  Her dark hair was drawn back, held by
of pain were starting to etch themselves permanently at the
the flesh was still smooth and firm.  She was twenty.  New lines
The skin below her eyes was pale and unhealthy-looking, but
Her accent put her south along the Sprawl, toward Atlanta. 
red plastic tube.  `You sleepin'~ okay, Case?  You look tired.' 
pocket and offered him one.  He took it, let her light it with a
  She dug a crumpled pack of Yeheyuan filters from an ankle
her arms for signs of derms or the needle.  `Want a cigarette?'
had been ripped out at the shoulders; he automatically checked
him, her elbows on the table.  The sleeves of the blue zipsuit
  `I been lookin'~ for you, man.'  She took a seat opposite
ers.
was wearing faded French orbital fatigues and new white sneak-
  He looked up, met gray eyes ringed with paintstick.  She
  `Hey.  Case, good buddy...'
fogged with something that could never be wiped away.
the mirrors and the once glossy plastics, leaving each surface
the bad nerves of a million customers had somehow attacked
tics, but everything seemed to wear a subtle film, as though
an uneasy blend of Japanese traditional and pale Milanese plas-
decorated in a dated, nameless style from the previous century,
impacts required to create a surface like that.  The Jarre was
the dex mounting through his spine he saw the countless random
of the tabletop was dull with a patina of tiny scratches.  With
was vibrating with the speed he'd taken.  The brown laminate
  He stared at the black ring of grounds in his empty cup.  It
blue mutant carp and crickets caged in bamboo.
of the mantises they sold in stalls along Shiga, beside tanks of
her track the next hit with a concentration that reminded him
the raw need, the hungry armature of addiction.  He'd watched
like an iceberg, splinters drifting away, and finally he'd seen
reflexive need.  He'd watched her personality fragment, calving
through to turn those perpetually startled eyes into wells of
  It took a month for the gestalt of drugs and tension he moved
child.
midnight clatter of a pachinko parlor and held his hand like a
loafers and clingwrap capes, until she'd stood with him in the
children of Tokyo trooping past the famous boutiques in white
up, falling along Harajuku, beading on her plastic jacket, the
at the hoverport and his first trip across the Bay.  The rain kept
  Their night together stretching into a morning, into tickets
headlights of an oncoming vehicle.
smudged black paintstick.  Eyes of some animal pinned in the
he'd made, he saw her glance up.  Gray eyes rimmed with
  Crossing the arcade to stand beside her, high on the deal
flight.
her upper lip like the line children draw to represent a bird in
he'd seen, hours later, on her sleeping face in a portside coffin,
played.  The expression on her face, then, had been the one
the dozens who stood at the consoles, lost in the game she
and somehow she'd been singled out for him, one face out of
in out of the warm rain that sizzled across the Ninsei pavement
to Yokohama and the money already in his pocket.  He'd come
high that night, with a brick of Wage's ketamine on its way
sparks from the wall of a skyscraper canyon.  He was riding
War, mouth touched with hot gold as a gliding cursor struck
forehead drenched with azure when Munich fell to the Tank
a code: her cheekbones flaring scarlet as Wizard's Castle burned,
way, her face bathed in restless laser light, features reduced to
the New York skyline...  And now he remembered her that
ette smoke, holograms of Wizard's Castle, Tank War Europa,
  Under bright ghosts burning through a blue haze of cigar-
  He'd found her, one rainy night, in an arcade.
most hated the thought of Linda Lee.
that was the part of him, smug in its expectation of death, that
basked in the knowledge that it was only a matter of time.  And
customers, who grew steadily fewer, but that same part of him
that the arc of his self-destruction was glaringly obvious to his
for being able to get whatever you wanted.  A part of him knew
the fastest, loosest deals on the street, and he had a reputation
carried a weapon, no longer took the basic precautions.  He ran
ancient one that has no name, a final solitaire.  He no longer
some point he'd started to play a game with himself, a very
of each tingling hair on his arms and chest, Case knew that at
on, pinheads of sweat starting from his palms, suddenly aware
  Alone at a table in the Jarre de Th, with the octagon coming
the failure to heed the demands of an intricate protocol.
accepted punishment for laziness, carelessness, lack of grace,
  Biz here was a constant subliminal hum, and death the
with New Yen for the clinic tanks.
lungs or kidneys might survive in the service of some stranger
memory in the mind of a fixture like Ratz, though heart or
way, you were gone, with nothing left of you but some vague
break the fragile surface tension of the black market; either
sank without a trace, but move a little too swiftly and you'd
permanently on the fast-forward button.  Stop hustling and you
winism, designed by a bored researcher who kept one thumb
  Night City was like a deranged experiment in social Dar-
wish, some secret poison he hadn't known he carried.
street itself came to seem the externalization of some death
would have seemed ludicrous.  Ninsei wore him down until the
killed two men and a woman over sums that a year before
seemed to belong to someone else.  In the first month, he'd
overdrive, hustling fresh capital with a cold intensity that had
and less hope of finding a cure, he'd gone into a kind of terminal
  At first, finding himself alone in Chiba, with little money
red neon.
  The Jarre was walled with mirrors, each panel framed in
zilian dex he bought from one of Zone's girls.
espresso.  It was a flat pink octagon, a potent species of Bra-
de Th, Case washed down the night's first pill with a double
  Two blocks west of the Chat, in a teashop called the Jarre

silver sky.
the neon dead, the holograms inert, waiting, under the poisoned
By day, the bars down Ninsei were shuttered and featureless,
area with no official name.  Night City, with Ninsei its heart. 
city were divided by a narrow borderland of older streets, an
dominated by the vast cubes of corporate arcologies.  Port and
of white styrofoam.  Behind the port lay the city, factory domes
was a black expanse where gulls wheeled above drifting shoals
hologram logo of the Fuji Electric Company, and Tokyo Bay
Tokyo for the glare of the television sky, not even the towering
night like vast stages; where you couldn't see the lights of
port, beneath the quartz-halogen floods that lit the docks all
  Now he slept in the cheapest coffins, the ones nearest the
he'd been maimed, and then slowly shaken their heads.
clinics, his last hope, had admired the expertise with which
round of examinations and consultations.  The men in the black
  In Chiba, he'd watched his New Yen vanish in a two-month
Sprawl's techno-criminal subcultures.
nerve-splicing, and microbionics, Chiba was a magnet for the
the shadowland of black medicine.  Synonymous with implants,
he'd find his cure.  In Chiba.  Either in a registered clinic or in
  In Japan, he'd known with a clenched and absolute certainty,
illegal.
business with cash in the Sprawl; in Japan, it was already
of the Trobriand islanders.  It was difficult to transact legitimate
the closed circuit of the world's black markets like the seashells
sheaf of the old paper currency that circulated endlessly through
  His total assets were quickly converted to New Yen, a fat

his own flesh.
for the flesh.  The body was meat.  Case fell into the prison of
hotshot, the elite stance involved a certain relaxed contempt
space, it was the Fall.  In the bars he'd frequented as a cowboy
  For Case, who'd lived for the bodiless exultation of cyber-
  The damage was minute, subtle, and utterly effective.
out micron by micron, he hallucinated for thirty hours.
  Strapped to a bed in a Memphis hotel, his talent burning
mycotoxin.
  They damaged his nervous system with a wartime Russian
they were going to make sure he never worked again.
money.  And he was going to need it.  Because -- still smiling --
Of course he was welcome, they told him, welcome to the
mattered now.  He'd expected to die, then, but they only smiled. 
He still wasn't sure how he'd been discovered, not that it
for himself and tried to move it through a fence in Amsterdam. 
never make.  He stole from his employers.  He kept something
  He'd made the classic mistake, the one he'd sworn he'd
of corporate systems, opening windows into rich fields of data.
vided the exotic software required to penetrate the bright walls
he'd worked for other, wealthier thieves, employers who pro-
into the consensual hallucination that was the matrix.  A thief,
berspace deck that projected his disembodied consciousness
byproduct of youth and proficiency, jacked into a custom cy-
biz.  He'd operated on an almost permanent adrenaline high, a
the best, by McCoy Pauley and Bobby Quine, legends in the
a rustler, one of the best in the Sprawl.  He'd been trained by
  Case was twenty-four.  At twenty-two, he'd been a cowboy,

through the Ninsei crowds, he could smell his own stale sweat.
stained khaki nylon of his windbreaker.  Threading his way
paid and left, high narrow shoulders hunched beneath the rain-
  `You're breaking my heart, Ratz.'  He finished his beer,
tistic; you wind up in the clinic tanks, spare parts.'
You laughed more.  Now, some night, you get maybe too ar-
deep in wrinkled flesh.  `I think I liked you better, with her. 
commerce?'  The bartender's small brown eyes were nested
  `No girl?  Nothing?  Only biz, friend artiste?  Dedication to
  Case shook his head.
  `Miss Linda Lee.'
  `I don't have one,' he said, and drank.
second Kirin.
  `I saw your girl last night,' Ratz said, passing Case his

gers, trying to reach the console that wasn't there.
clawed into the bedslab, temperfoam bunched between his fin-
dark, curled in his capsule in some coffin hotel, his hands
and he'd cry for it, cry in his sleep, and wake alone in the
dreams came on in the Japanese night like livewire voodoo,
boy.  Just another hustler, trying to make it through.  But the
Pacific now, and he was no console man, no cyberspace cow-
void...  The Sprawl was a long strange way home over the
his sleep, bright lattices of logic unfolding across that colorless
corners he'd cut in Night City, and still he'd see the matrix in
nightly.  All the speed he took, all the turns he'd taken and the
  A year here and he still dreamed of cyberspace, hope fading
Memphis hotel.
and still they couldn't repair the damage he'd suffered in that
the cutting edge, whole bodies of technique supplanted monthly,
the Chinese had ever known.  The black clinics of Chiba were
  The Japanese had already forgotten more neurosurgery than

rising in him like bile, `that is _so_ much bullshit.'
  `Now that,' Case said to his glass, all his bitterness suddenly
nerve job any day.  Fix you right, mate...'
bloody invented nerve-splicing.  Give me the mainland for a
  `The Chinese,' bellowed a drunken Australian, `Chinese
  Ratz grunted.  `An angel passed.'
Then the whore's giggle rang out, tinged with a certain hysteria.
conversations had simultaneously arrived at the same pause. 
instants of silence descended, as though a hundred unrelated
  As Case was picking up his beer, one of those strange
ment value.'
`Zone shows a percentage.  You I let work here for entertain-
  `Ha,' Ratz said, swabbing the scarred wood with a rag,
Man can't have a drink.'
  `Jesus,' Case said, `what kinda creepjoint you running here? 
spitting sound, her lips barely moving.  But she left.
  She looked Case in the eye and made the softest possible
a close personal friend of mine.'
  `Isn't you either, sister.  So you vanish, okay?  Zone, he's
  The whore's giggle went up an octave.
be funny around here.  Sure the fuck isn't you.'
  `Sure,' Case said, and sipped his beer.  `Somebody's gotta
the artiste of the slightly funny deal.'
overhang of white-shirted belly with the pink claw.  `You are
grunted; the sound served him as laughter.  He scratched his
pink plastic.  `You are too much the artiste, Herr Case.'  Ratz
a seven-function force-feedback manipulator, cased in grubby
reached for another mug.  It was a Russian military prosthesis,
heraldic about his lack of it.  The antique arm whined as he
of legend.  In an age of affordable beauty, there was something
  The bartender's smile widened.  His ugliness was the stuff
him.
  Case shrugged.  The girl to his right giggled and nudged
good hand.  `Maybe some business with you, Case?'
joeboys,' Ratz said, shoving a draft across the bar with his
precise rows of tribal scars.  `Wage was in here early, with two
uniform of a tall African whose cheekbones were ridged with
unlikely tan on one of Lonny Zone's whores and the crisp naval
and brown decay.  Case found a place at the bar, between the
Case and smiled, his teeth a webwork of East European steel
nously as he filled a tray of glasses with draft Kirin.  He saw
  Ratz was tending bar, his prosthetic arm jerking monoto-
for a week and never hear two words in Japanese.
was a bar for professional expatriates; you could drink there
ciency.'  It was a Sprawl voice and a Sprawl joke.  The Chatsubo
Chat.  `It's like my body's developed this massive drug defi-
shouldered his way through the crowd around the door of the
  `It's not like I'm using,' Case heard someone say, as he
to a dead channel.
  The sky above the port was the color of television, tuned

        1


        CHIBA CITY BLUES
        PART ONE



        with love
        who made it possible
        for Deb




Part 1 2 3 4 Coda

WILLIAM GIBSON

 	

